PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 1999
Stuart Appleby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 STUART APPLEBY: For me, last year, I was in a very similar position. Probably a little
bit more intense than this year. I had quite a deal -- not quite a deal, but I had a
pretty tough task ahead of me, and I made a choice to stay over here. I had two
tournaments in Europe I was scheduled to play; pulled out of those for the reason to make
my Top-30 run a bit stronger. I was 30th, but I was going to slip down each week I didn't
play. I really had to try to get my rear end into gear and push it higher and higher. It's
pretty important, especially when you're close, because when you're close, you like to
make it a priority, because, you know, it's an achievement. It's a pat on the back.
Top-30, you're into a limited field event. The guys get pretty pumped about that. It's
certainly, to use this term, it's the icing on the cake for any guy to get into the
Top-30.  
 
Q. With the rule changes at the Masters, it's no longer just Top-30 getting in, and
with Valderrama after, does Top-30 mean quite as much now as it did even a year ago?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: That's a good question. The TOUR Championship was always the last event
of the year. It was the last event, and there was only 30 guys playing golf that week.
Now, you've got a tournament running opposite the TOUR Championship, and then you have
Valderrama the following week. I think it's gotten a little bit more complicated that
period, those two weeks of the year, because logistically, I mean really, I could have
been in the scenario of missing the Top-30, say 31st, not played the TOUR Championship,
played the one opposite, then gone to Valderrama and won Valderrama, and then finished
15th, 10th on the money list, which would have been very weird for a guy who never played
the TOUR Championship. So what you say, yeah, it's different, but it's still very intense
because you've got to use the TOUR Championship as a running -- stepping stone to
Valderrama. I think to play at that level, that competition, and to be all juiced up for
the next week at Valderrama, it's still pretty important. It's just not the last event
anymore.  
 
Q. The TOUR now, the British Open is official; the TOUR has got an event in Spain that
will maybe move around, and match play will move to Australia in 2001. The European TOUR
has branched out and made official events around the world for a long time, for their own
reasons of weather and things. Do you think the PGA TOUR should in the future maybe think
about making the Australian Open, another Australian tournament, an official tournament?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I don't think they will.  
 
Q. Do you think they should?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: Should they? Probably not. They don't have to. I suppose if you don't
have to do something, and it can be run just as well the way it is, or fine-tuned, there's
no real reason to run out of the country. I think the American players don't want to go
that far because they don't have to. You become accustomed to what you have to do, and
they don't have to go. Whereas, the European TOUR has to branch out to areas where there
is large amounts of money to be played for, and they have joined those events around the
world, Australia, and Asia to their TOUR. I think it's geographically too far for them to
be doing that. I don't think it's really necessary, at least to that extent, to be calling
an Australia event part of the European TOUR. Because it's more of a World TOUR,
definitely Europe is more of a World TOUR than here. I don't think we don't have to. I
don't think it's necessary. Hopefully, with all of these extra events, like you're saying,
around the world, hopefully players will become slightly more advanced in playing around
the world, and that counts on the U.S. money List. But I don't think we have to go start
chasing around six or seven tournaments around the world.  
 
Q. How about from the Australian point of view, would it not strengthen their TOUR?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: We do have events like that now running, the Heineken in Perth, some
tournaments like that. You know, it's great because we get an influx of money because
you've got big names playing. The conditions are that if you do play well as an
Australian, the only thing is you've got to pay a large entry fee to get into the European
TOUR, and then you're not guaranteed of getting many starts. Yeah, it's got a catch to it.
Yeah, you've got to play well, make some money, finish high and potentially get your card
in Europe. But you've got to pay a high entry fee. They have to protect themselves from
guys coming out of nowhere, for on event, in their home country, to get a card 5,000 miles
away. You've got to protect the players that represent their TOUR constantly and not have
too much of an influx. It would be great, but you've got to remember, 10,000 miles away,
to get the Top 50 players in the world over there, outside of an event of like what Spain
is, it's got to be pretty tough.  
 
Q. The Ryder Cup, which I assume you watched part of or at least saw the highlights,
David Duval said his only basis for comparison prior to this was the Presidents Cup and
the Ryder Cup was so much different. Did you see things to sort of envy that you wish were
in the Presidents Cup -- (inaudible)?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I would say based on experience, I've been a viewer of Ryder Cups and a
participant in one Presidents. They are not even the same animal. Being a player and a
television watcher is totally different. Yes, it's a very big part of the tournament, but
there's a lot of other stuff that goes on, a massive amount of other stuff. I would have
to say that I thought the Presidents Cup was well-run. I'll never know what a Ryder Cup is
like. You'd probably best ask that one to an American. I loved the Presidents Cup in
Melbourne. I thought it was run well. I thought everything was great. You know, it was
fantastic. Really, that's a toughy. I can't compare. Certainly, TV is different to the
real thing.  
 
Q. You don't think there are things the Presidents Cup needs to change maybe to get to
that level or do you think it's good at the level it's at?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I don't think what you mean by LEVEL. Are you talking about competition
level or the way it's run?  
 
Q. The intensity level? 
 
 STUART APPLEBY: The intensity level? I don't think -- I don't think I don't know. I
think the Ryder Cup has got a bit fired up this year because of all the happenings. I
don't think the Presidents Cup is lacking at all. It's it's own identity itself. I think
it's pretty big. I think it's grown quicker than the Ryder Cup, definitely. 
 
Q. Some thoughts now that you've clinched a spot on the TOUR Championship, what do you
think about returning to Houston? Obviously you had some success there?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: Houston, actually, that's going to be nice. We're playing the same
course again where we did -- where I was last there, when it was last there, too. And that
will be nice. It will be nice to get back to Houston for obvious reasons, being this
year's victorious place. I liked the course we played at. It was tough. A good fight for
the end of the year. I will it will be a good representation of Valderrama, being a very
tight golf course. Yeah, quietly pleased that I know that I can book myself a flight there
now.  
 
Q. The best way you can, talk about if your life has even gotten close to back to
normal or what kind of, in, your personal life, have you been able to get along with
things now?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: Someone asked me that last week, and I really, my answer was: I don't
know. It's a little bit like asking me how did they build the Pyramids. How did they do
it? I can sit there and give you ideas, but there's no real rules. There's no time period.
It's not like school, and, you know, you're there for 12 years or whatever it is and
that's it. Far from normal. I don't know when -- I don't know when that -- if you want to
use it, the feeling, that feeling of normality comes. I think every day that goes by, it's
a stepping stone or building block towards that. I'm certainly far from having contentment
in my life like I had before.  
 
Q. Any way of knowing if and when that will come?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I think it will. When? Don't know. That will be something internal that
will be switched on one day, whether it be -- I don't know. I really couldn't say. You
know, you'd have to talk to so-called experts on what the belief or resumption of
someone's life in all matters when that happens. I've never had this happen; so, I've
really got no idea. I've never read anything yet that states -- they just say: It's at
your own speed. There's no time frame except what is comfortable, and I'll have to work on
that one.  
 
Q. Do people just still tip-toe around you or treat you like a delicate widower or are
things getting back to normal?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I don't think anyone really tiptoed. I would never say I sensed that
from anybody. Especially my friends, I never felt that. No, I don't believe so. No, I
don't feel like I felt like anyone was really different towards me. Maybe I've had my
friends paying more attention to me, friends of the family, but maybe more concerned,
maybe worried. Just the obvious things that your loved ones, you know, really do care
about you, and that's what happens. As much as I would be for them.  
 
Q. Stuart, along those lines, you're in a pressure profession. How do you stay focused
when you have tragedy in your life like this?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: Somehow, you manage, and that's just the thing. Somehow you manage,
whether that's an inner strength or something else, I don't know. Other times you don't.
Other times flat out: "Listen, I can't do this. It's just too much for me right
now," and you just don't, and you take weeks off. Sometimes you can't -- it just
takes a long time to learn how to understand what it is and understand what it's all
about, and to learn from it. So yes, there's times I can concentrate well and other times
I can't. It's tough. It is just hard. It really is. At it's worst, it's really, really
tough.  
 
Q. You were the first to win a million dollars out of qualifying school in one year
there. What's the secret to that for people that are aspiring to get on the TOUR, anything
you can pass on to them?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: Someone asked that question to me, about a month ago: Who was the first
guy that made a $1 million out of TOUR school? I thought: Gee, who would that be? I had no
idea. I didn't really think about it. I knew it was me, but it didn't really pop up. He
said, "It was you, you idiot." Oh, it was me, sorry. So to answer your question,
how did I do that? I think I used some experience of the previous year to my great
advantage. I learned that, you know, I knew I had better game than what I presented the
year before. I knew I had a better game than at the TOUR school this year. I got out
there, and I suppose there's definitely an adjustment period of getting used to the TOUR.
For some guys, two years, three years. And some guys, you have this confidence, this
confidence in yourself, and your belief is what gets you through. Talent is there, but
from what I've seen and other players have seen, lots of players have that talent, but if
they don't have a belief system about that, then it's useless. It's absolutely useless.
I've always thought I was a smart thinker on a golf course. I didn't make rash decisions
at any time. So I used certain conditions. Being windy, it was my first win at Honda. I
loved the wind playing in Australia. I had some confidence coming into the year. Felt
good, and off I went. You know and I tell you what, it only takes a month, maybe one
tournament a month, and you're off on a roll, and that's really what golf is all good,
starting rolls. That's where I got started, and I'm not looking back. I'm only looking
forward.  
 
Q. Stuart, is there a chance you're hitting one of those rolls you had a real good
finish last week?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I'd like to, but I'm running out of -- I'm running out of racetrack to
use. We're running out of time here. I'd like to think we can take this roll right through
to Valderrama. That's ultimately the tournament I want to perform very well in and win
that tournament; so, I'd like to use this as a little kick-start. I had not played
previous to the Buick last week; so sort of been playing very hot and cold. Very narrow
balance in my game, and I think I need some time off and the time off made a massive
difference. Yeah, I'd like to get into Kingsmill here and get myself the TOUR Championship
and Valderrama and say '99 -- finish '99 off as a good, great golf year.  
 
Q. Your last three events of the official season?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: Yes, I'm pretty much looking at this week. Not sure whether I'll be
playing Disney. And then TOUR Championship, which is -- obviously, an iffy one only a week
ago, I didn't know what I was doing there, and now I'm off for those two -- playing those
two weeks and playing in Australia.  
 
Q. Have you ever played -- you talked about Valderrama. Have you played there before?
 
 STUART APPLEBY: No. No. I only say that on TV.  
 
 STUART APPLEBY: I look forward to being there.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT