US OPEN
August 28, 2000
Martin Damm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Martin.  
 
Q. How did he seem out there? What did you say?
 
 MARTIN DAMM: I can't hear you really well.  
 
Q. How did Sampras seem to you? Did he seem to be in good health, playing well?
 
 MARTIN DAMM: Yeah, I think that he's healthy. He was serving big whole match. Maybe he
was a little bit, you know, slower on returnings. But he's definitely going to get better,
you know, as he gets some more matches under his belt.  
 
Q. Did you sense he was uncomfortable at any time in the match, not physically, but
just that you were putting some pressure on him, and he may be a bit shaky out there?
 
 MARTIN DAMM: Not really, because I didn't really put any pressure on his serve. He was
serving really big. I just really won a few points on his serve in the first two sets. He
didn't really feel any pressure on his serve, so he could play quite relaxed on his return
games. He had some break points on my serve; didn't make it in the first set. He made it
finally at 5-All in the second. I think that he really, you know, didn't feel much
pressure, especially on his serve.  
 
Q. Did you notice any difference in him from when you played him like six, seven years
ago? Is he pretty much the same guy out there?
 
 MARTIN DAMM: Well, the first time I play him was eight years ago already, so I don't
really remember that much from that match. Obviously, he was already by then No. 2 or No.
3 in the world. Since then, obviously he won a lot of Grand Slams. It's always tough to
play against him. Especially his serve, it's always big. If he's really healthy,
concentrating well, it's really very difficult to play him. The result today was a little
bit, you know, closer than I lost three really easy sets. Actually, I'm pretty pleased
with my performance today. I served really good. I just didn't have much chance on his
serve, so.  
 
Q. To have to play him as the No. 4 seed, do you think that's almost unfair?
 
 MARTIN DAMM: That he's No. 4? What do you mean?  
 
Q. Usually when you play a No. 4 seed, you don't think it's going to be Pete Sampras. 
 
 MARTIN DAMM: Well, you know, he was a little injured. That's, you know, why his rank
dropped a little bit. From 1 or 2 to 4 still is not bad, obviously. You know, he's really
top player. Doesn't matter if he's No. 1 seed or No. 4. He's just a great competitor. You
know, especially at the Slams, if he's on his best, it's really tough to put any challenge
against him.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT