NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 24, 1999
John Cullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN CULLEN: John Cullen I just have one question for Gary Bettman tonight. That's, why
do I have to go after Wayne (laughter)? It's an honor to share the dias with the greatest
player that ever played this game. It's a real honor for me to win this award because of
what it stands for. When I first got diagnosed with cancer, I thought I would treat it
like an injury, a bad injury, and be back playing in six to seven months. But as the
cancer persisted, I had to go through a bone marrow transplant. I thought getting back to
the game at that time seemed impossible. So to get back to playing this year, to score my
first goal against Dominik, the game winning goal was probably one of the best goals, even
though it was exhibition. Probably one of the greatest accomplishments I ever did was to
get back to play this game, but most of all just getting healthy. I have a lot of people
to thank. I'd like to thank all the fans across the country, especially in Tampa for all
their support. I'd like to thank the NHL and the NHL PA for taking on American and
Canadian cancers research funds. We've raised already $1 million for cancer research. I
would like to thank my agent Ron Salcer, who is here tonight who made me go see one of the
top lymphoma specialists in Boston and probably saved my life. I'd also like to
congratulate all the other guys on each team that were nominated, all the writers who
voted me this award, and also all my family is here tonight. I'm really going to embarrass
somebody right now. I want her to stand up. Stand up, Babe. When you go through something
like I went through, you got to have somebody to complain to, someone to go get the
nurses, someone to keep you up. Her name should be on this trophy, too. If I didn't have
her, I'm not quite sure where I'd be. The number one thanks goes to my wife. Thank you,
Babe.  
 
Press conference:

Q. Have you been able to put it all in perspective now?
 
 JOHN CULLEN: I still look back and I just basically can't believe what I went through.
I see people now when I go see them, I say, "That was me." I can't believe I was
at that stage, for me to be healthy, I'm basically one of the lucky ones. Thank got I'm
here.  
 
Q. Tell us about life after hockey now? What are you doing, going to be doing?
 
 JOHN CULLEN: I retired last year, as you know. I played the first month of Tampa, then
Cleveland for a month. Then I retired. I was offered assistant coach Tampa Bay Lightning.
I only had a one-year contract. Obviously Tampa is going through some different changes
again. Hopefully I'll be able to stay there as an assistant coach.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about that goal more than you did on TV? 
 
 JOHN CULLEN: Well, I missed a whole year, then I had to go through the bone marrow
transplant. Just to get out there playing again, I just couldn't believe it. I mean, I
don't know how many people saw the goal, but it was not too pretty. I just tipped it past
him. I just got back to the bench, heard my name over the PA. It was just one of the best
things I could hear because I knew I got back.  
 
Q. When you went up to speak there, were you trying to think, "I'm going to keep
calm, not cry"? 
 
 JOHN CULLEN: First of all, if I'm after Wayne, I'm going to go crazy here. I said thank
God there was a commercial. Yeah, I mean, you know, when you go through cancer, it's
emotional. It's an emotional time. When you have to talk about it and you have to talk in
front of people, you have to bring up especially my family and my wife, because it was
tough. There were some tough, tough times. That's emotional. When I get talking about it,
sometimes I go, "Okay, I'll be calm, talk about it, no problem." Sometimes it
gets emotional. When you fight any disease or anybody's going through anything, it's an
emotional thing. It still is. It will be for the rest of my life because it's an ongoing
battle to fight it.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT