NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 7, 1998
Andy Ashby
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How did you feel out there tonight and what does winning this game mean to you?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: I felt good. I mean, it was kind of tough with the rain delay and
everything, trying to calm your nerves down. But once we got started, I felt good. Carlos
called a great game, and defense played extremely well, and the offense came through and
got us enough runs where we won the game. It's a big win, especially knowing you have
Kevin Brown coming out tomorrow and starting the game tomorrow. He's been throwing the
ball great, so I think it's a huge win. I'm glad I can go out there and contribute and
give us a chance to win. 
 
Q. Bruce, what happened on the double error?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: It looked like he threw to Andres off the bag there, and he had to rush it
throwing home because Ruben did a great job reading that. And Ruben did a great job on the
bases. Well, first of all, he did a great job hitting the double, and made a nice read
going from 2nd to 3rd. That was a bang, bang play. And great job going home on that throw. 
 
Q. This is a game where your closer doesn't quite get the job done, but you still won
the ballgame.
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, Trevor is human, and they did a good job of battling back against
him. And he wasn't quite as sharp as he's been, but he's still -- I thought he battled
very good without his best stuff out there. And the key for us is we came right back.
Nobody got down after they tied the score, and Caminiti came through big time with that
home run. And Trevor felt pretty good, so I let him start the inning, but once he walked
Glavine, I thought he hit the wall. 
 
Q. Do you think it worked to your advantage that the crowd kind of thinned out in the
rain delay, that it didn't feel like a playoff atmosphere?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, to us it felt like a playoff atmosphere. I thought the crowd was
into the game. That was a good, tight ballgame, and they were making a lot of noise. And
they're good fans here. We didn't pay attention if it was thinned out or anything, and we
could definitely hear them. It's a playoff game, there's no question in our mind. And I
think you could tell with the atmosphere. 
 
Q. How is Vaughn?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Not real, real good news on that. His left quad, he pulled it pretty good.
He pulled it on the ball he caught off of Chipper Jones. His spike slipped on the wet
grass and came in and it was bothering him, and he felt good enough to swing the bat.
Almost came through with a big hit there. But it could be three or four days. That's the
early prognosis. We'll reevaluate him. If he can't go tomorrow, which it looks like he's
very doubtful, Ruben Rivera will be out there. 
 
Q. Do you feel like this game is representative of what the rest of the series will be
like, down to the wire?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's the type of game we thought it would be, and all the games, we
have to pitch well, we know that. We don't expect to score a lot of runs off their
pitching staff. This is pretty typical of the type of game we thought, and I think the
rest of the games are going to be good, tight ballgames. 
 
Q. Andy, you only threw 83 pitches. How does that leave you feeling, as opposed to your
normal starts?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: I think it feels good, because I threw something like 70 in Houston and I
only went three innings. I think it would be better than if I threw 115 or 120, for my
next start. So I think it's beneficial to the way I'm going to feel in the next four or
five days whenever I'm out there again. 
 
Q. With a 1-0 lead and Kevin Brown pitching tomorrow, does it give you a little lift
going into the next game?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: It's nice winning the first game and we have to go against Glavine, and we
have Kevin Brown going. It should be a tough ballgame going tomorrow. It's nice to have
our guy going tomorrow, but they have a guy that we know is going to be very tough. So it
should be another good, tight ballgame.  
 
Q. Bruce, can Trevor come back tomorrow and give you an inning?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: I think if it's the same tight game, he's going to say he's fine. He threw
a lot of pitches tonight and we decided to give him a day off. It's nice to have Miceli
and Myers down in the bullpen. But we'll check on how he feels tomorrow. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT