U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Conchita Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Conchita, what was going through your mind during the tiebreaker, when Conchita was
serving?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Can you speak a little louder? 
 
Q. What was going through your mind in the tiebreaker; what were you thinking?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I was -- the whole match was a tie, a lot of things go through your
mind. I mean, you cannot prepare what you're going to do to win the point. I knew she was
going to be aggressive, coming in a lot, and you know, I just have to try to make my
passing shot. 
 
Q. Conchita, did you feel you could attack her backhand on critical points? You seemed
to go to her backhand.
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Yeah, I felt that I normally don't do  
 that and probably, she wasn't expecting that from me, so -- and sometimes, when you see
it's going to slice, you go to the net to her backhand and make some points. 
 
Q. Conchita, considering Zina has been having a -- Sorry, I'm speaking too fast?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: No, you're not speaking loud enough. 
 
Q. I'm sorry. That's never been said.
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I'm the first one. 
 
Q. Considering that Zina has been having sort of a dream Open, do you feel you sort of
burst the bubble a little bit?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: To tell you the truth, I never saw Zina play like that, so
concentrate and so, pa, pa. She was going for every shot. She was changing herself a lot
and it was tough, she was tough today. Yeah, somebody plays like her, they're going to be
tired, they're going to play unbelievable. I think that's what was happening with Zina.
She was playing very good and today she played a good match. I feel very happy to go
through the quarterfinals because she was very tough today.  
 
Q. Conchita, last year you lost to a serve and volleyer, I think, in the third round;
right?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Not really. 
 
Q. Well, she was serve and volleying against you, but this year you handled the serve
and volleyer out here pretty well.
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, you see, what happened, I lost to Helgeson last year. I don't
consider her a serve and volleyer person. And what happened when you play against somebody
like that and they come in, you don't expect that so they come in by surprise and
sometimes that is more effective. You know, when you know that a person is coming to the
net a lot, and you're expecting that, so you're ready for the passing shot. But if you
play and somebody doesn't come in a lot, it's tougher to play. 
 
Q. Have you been watching Seles's matches at all and do you like your chances if you
happen to meet her?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: I'm not going to concentrate to my next match. I'm happy to be in
the quarterfinals again. I want to enjoy this feeling, and I didn't saw -- I didn't watch
her play live, I was home,  
 on television. She's playing unbelievable, so I have to win my next match. 
 
Q. What percentage would you say you're playing? Are you playing to the best of your
ability on hardcourts right now?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Today, I'm, you know, it was tough, the day before I play
unbelievable, I was playing 100%. But today, like I said, it was tough, I wasn't very
happy with my passing shots. She was coming in unbelievable, so I feel confidence out
there and hopefully I improve my next -- with my next match and maybe I pass into the
finals for the first time. 
 
Q. Conchita, everybody talks about Brenda's serve. How have you done against Brenda in
the past and is there anything else that concerns you about her game aside from her serve?
 
 CONCHITA MARTINEZ: Well, her serve, I think, is her shot. I mean, she serves very hard
and you have to have your day to make the returns, be patient because maybe she is going
to start missing and you have a chance to break her. Of course you have to be very
concentrated in your service game to win. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT