US OPEN
September 5, 1998
Jan Siemerink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you sense the match turn in that fourth set when he was called for a second
serve foot fault? Seemed to be complaining about that, things (indicating). 
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: He was getting a bit upset with that call. I couldn't hear what he was
saying during the changeovers, though. It's so loud here in the evening. You can hardly
hear the ball bounce on your racquet. I don't know if that changed. I had the feeling that
once the sun was going down and it got dark and the lights were on, the conditions changed
a little bit, and it was more in my favor than in his favor, I think. 
 
Q. You're aware that he saved match points in his first two matches. When it got to
match point, did that enter your mind at all?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Well, the only thing you have in your mind is that he played already two
best-of-five matches. That's the only thing you know. That might help you in the match. I
thought that looking at his body language, that he was getting a little bit tired. I mean,
he was still getting the serve in. It's still not easy to break. As you can see, he was
tired, but he still has to do it. Finally at the end I got the break. He hit a couple of
good returns when I served for it. You have to accept that. But on the other hand, he
missed also some easy second serves. So I wasn't really worried about losing that game
actually. 
 
Q. How did you feel at the climax of the fifth when he seemed to be going downhill
physically, you seemed to sense that and get a little more spring in your step?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: I thought in the beginning of the set, I wasn't playing so well, didn't
serve well, missed a lot of balls. Like I said, the conditions were very tough to play.
The sun was very bright. There was a little wind. The sun was going down, you get the
shade on the court. All those things, they don't make it easy to play. Like I said, once
that got away and the lights were on, it was getting dark, the atmosphere was even better
than before. That gave me a little boost, I think. 
 
Q. When was the last time you went five?
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: I don't know.  
 
Q. Have to look it up.
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: Probably Wimbledon. 
 
Q. Why do you think you have a little bit of an edge on Greg? What do you put that down
to? It's five to three now.
 
 JAN SIEMERINK: We always play close matches. It's not a matter of winning it easy. I
mean, he also had his chances. Also in the matches before, they were all close. It's just
a matter of winning the important points. You get two or three in a match like that. If
you make two out of three, then you're the lucky one to win. But I think today physically
I was a bit stronger than he was. That made me stronger mentally. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT