DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 2, 2000
Bruce Lietzke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRUCE LIETZKE: Just a real friendly day in Miami, one that we don't get to see and this
is my 26th year. I think I have only missed maybe two Dorals in my 26 years and I can only
think of a very few days when we had this calm of a wind for the entire day. There had
been days when mornings have been like this and then heavy wind in the afternoon. I was
expecting those winds to pick up today because I have seen that happen over all the years.
But the wind did change directions a little bit but there was just never enough velocity
to it that it affected the ball very much. Direction was iffy sometimes but again not much
velocity to it and it stayed that way the entire day and gave us a chance to shoot low in
the afternoon when normally the afternoon scores here go up one or two shots. I usually
try to prepare myself for that when I play here or any time in Florida that usually those
afternoon rounds are higher and I don't think they were. I guess my afternoon's score was
the same as some of the morning rounds. Very happy that the wind didn't pick up and it
gave us a chance, everybody because I have been seeing red scoreboards all afternoon. It
gave us chances to hit the ball close and putting was easier when the wind doesn't blow
here everything becomes easier. And you have got a golf course that is designed now to be
very playable under these conditions and I don't say that it is easy, but it is playable
under these conditions and it will still be playable when the wind blows 20 or at 25 miles
an hour which I am pretty certain it will by the time this week is over. Again those are
things I expect when I come to Miami. If you don't like playing in the wind then you don't
come to this tournament. I expect there to be wind and I expect this golf course to be a
pretty fair test when the wind does below.

Q. Being that it seems like the morning rounds are usually better, does it make you
really anxious to get out there tomorrow?

BRUCE LIETZKE: Absolutely. I have been thinking about that for my last nine holes out
there how nice it is going to be, hopefully. I don't know what the forecast is but again
those are things that I expect. I expect the mornings to be pretty calm. I don't know what
the forecast, is but I started thinking about tomorrow's round midway through today's
round thinking that if I can maintain this and then get my morning tee time, it could be a
lot of fun. But every time I think about that-- looked up on the scoreboard I'd see other
guys that were 5-, 6-under par, I am not the only one thinking that way. But under these
conditions and this golf course and how well it is in condition right now you better be
thinking about shooting low scores. Again when the wind blows, you have to back off those
low scores and know that 69, 70 becomes a real good round on this golf course when those
winds blow.

Q. I thought you were supposed to just think one shot at a time?

BRUCE LIETZKE: No, I got away from that a long time ago. It is too boring to play one
shot at a time. I like to have several things going through my mind.

Q. Can you kind of give us a rundown of your practice and preparation?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I am over-practiced. This is my third tournament in a row. I am about to
pass out from exhaustion. I have to immediately go home and take seven weeks off. That is
only way I can -- I won't be able to recover until I get these seven weeks vacation out of
my way. And I have actually hit the ball -- I hit the ball pretty well at Los Angeles and
I hit the ball well at Tucson and I didn't putt good either one of those tournaments. That
was really the difference today. I hit the ball again good today and I made some putts but
that kind of capsulizes my whole career is it revolves usually around the putter and the
weeks that I putt good, I am up on the leaderboard or near the leaderboard and the weeks
that I don't have the putter going is the weeks that I fall back and I had fallen back the
last couple of weeks because the putter hadn't worked and today it did and yet I still
left, I missed 8-footer on 18 and missed two 5-footers for birdies on the golf course and
still shot 7-under. So I made my share of putts today, but didn't make everything. 

Q. Did it surprise you at all that if by chance the wind is just nothing all week long,
a winning score is let's say 22, 24-under?

BRUCE LIETZKE: Sure.

Q. Is it playing way too easy?

BRUCE LIETZKE: No, because I was here the year Greg shot 26, 24, we had pretty calm
conditions. I remember that week, and unfortunately the reaction was that the golf course
was too easy and really all it was very calm weather and at the time Greg Norman was the
best player in the world and the best player in the world is supposed to shoot low under
these kind of conditions. You just saw great players out there today shooting low. What
did happen last with the changes was that when those normal March winds start blowing, the
golf courses became unplayable for a couple of years because of the penalties involved in
driving and all the extra sand out there, so no, it is not an easy golf course -- when the
winds blow when these normal March winds blow, Doral will play just like it has the last
25 or 26 years, in my eyes anyway. It will be a fair but tough golf course when the winds
blow and when they don't the guys are going to shoot low just like we did today and just
like Greg did a few years ago. I think the management here would tell you that their
reaction to Greg's shooting so low was not the right thing to do because they have spent
three or four years bringing it right back to where the golf course was five years ago. I
have always pretty
much -- over the years I have said that this was my favorite Florida golf course
because it was such a playable, fair golf course when the winds blow here. For some reason
today we just didn't have those winds.

Q. When you go home will you really not play at all when you take all that time off or
even just a casual round of golf?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I am playing a little bit of casual golf now because I am the golf coach
of my son's high school team and they will drag me out on the golf course for nine holes
at a time, maybe nine holes every two weeks or something like that. But pretty much for my
whole career and before my son started playing golf, I never touched the golf clubs during
any break, two weeks or seven weeks or I took five months off one year in 1983 and didn't
touch a golf club for those five months. So it has changed a little bit in that I do go
out with my son now. I have got a 16-year-old son that plays on the high school team and I
am the coach of the team, so occasionally they will ask me to come out and play nine holes
with them and that -- I am happy to do that, but I don't work on my game and I am just out
playing social golf, not working on any aspect of my game. It pretty much adds up to about
nine holes every two weeks which that is not practice anyway.

Q. Do you get paid to coach?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I don't get paid to coach.

Q. Do you teach them your practice habits?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I do not. I don't teach them. I sure don't. I'd probably ruin all of
them if they followed my example and they have asked me that. I have told them at their
age I was playing golf everyday and practicing and playing and I do try to teach them
strategy on the golf course but I don't teach any mechanics at all.

Q. Do you almost snicker at -- not snicker but maybe sort of chuckle to see how hard
guys work day and day at this game and you are able to do this with so much less effort?

BRUCE LIETZKE: No, because it is -- I am the freak, they aren't. They are following
human nature traits that everybody seems to have in that they want to improve their golf
swings and I am just kind of a freak of nature in that I don't want my swing to improve at
all. I want my swing to be exactly like it was yesterday and I want it to be exactly like
it was 25 years ago and that is all I strive for. But that is weird, nobody does that.
Everybody wants to improve and for some guys it works and for some guys it hasn't worked.
I took my route and hoped to maintain the same swing for my whole career and play the same
shot my whole career and that has worked for me but I don't preach that to any of the guys
that are out here and if they are out there working on a new swing, then they are welcomed
to it. But those are the penalties they pay for trying either a new set of golf clubs,
radical driver that is 47 inches, you have got to find a swing to go along with some new
radical club and if you are trying a new golf move, you have got to go out and beat
thousands of balls to work that into your swing and I don't hate practicing, I am just not
a good practicer. I grew up on a golf course that had no driving range so I went straight
to the golf course. If I had a half a day to do something, I didn't have an option of
going to beat range balls. My option was to go play four holes or nine holes or however
many-most cases it was all day long, but I didn't have a choice of hitting a few range
balls then playing golf. It was straight to the golf course so I just never got to learn
to practice correctly and I am only good for about 30 minutes if on the practice tee each
morning and then my attention span is gone. I am bored because I am not working on
anything. I am just warming up golf muscles; I am not trying some new magazine article
move and I am not watching the golf channel to pick up what the newest teacher is
teaching. I am just warming up those same golf muscles that I used yesterday and in 20, 30
minutes I am pretty bored and you can get in trouble when you are bored on the practice
tee and you are goofing off, it can lead to some bad swing habits so I just -- and anybody
on the Tour will tell you, you can get in just as much trouble on the practice tee -- if
you are not a good practicer or working on the wrong thing, that practice tee can be a
killer; long list of pros that would attest to that.

Q. I know very little seems to bother you, golfwise anyway, but does it ever irritate
you or the Tour guys in general when so much attention is focused on Tiger not being in a
tournament rather than the people who are here this week being an example. Much is made of
the fact -- and Honda -- that Tiger is not going to play either place. Does that bother
you guys?

BRUCE LIETZKE: In general I think it bothers some of the players that that is being
written and you know, they take it as a slap on their ability that, you know, "hey, I
am here too," but in my personal case, it doesn't bother me a bit. I like to sneak in
and sneak out-of-town as quietly as I possibly can and if the attention is on somebody
else, that is when I am the happiest, so -- I don't think it would have even bothered me
when I was playing the Tour full-time. Again you have different personalities and there
are some players, probably a dozen, that it doesn't bother a bit, but I think overall and
through the years hearing a few players, and before Tiger Woods it was Jack Nicklaus, if
Jack wasn't in your field then, boy, you just didn't have much of a tournament, so Tiger
didn't start it and through the years I can remember hearing guys in the locker room
saying, I beat Jack last week and things like that, so certainly it hurts some of the
feelings of some of the players. You better learn to put up with it pretty quick because
it has been written that way before Jack. It was probably Ben Hogan and before Ben Hogan
the Byron Nelsons and everything. The stars of the game, and I believe that every sport
needs those stars. And I think it hurts some feelings and for some guys it motivates them
to go out and to show them that there are some other good players here. Could be a real
motivating point for a lot of players, but for me it puts the focus somewhere else and
that is exactly where I have always liked it.

Q. Given your breakneck schedule here the

last --
BRUCE LIETZKE: Thanks for recognizing that. By the way I am very proud to be here three
weeks, very proud.

Q. Is that a sign, are you going to do anything than your norm?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I am going to do nine. Seven weeks off; then three in Texas, Houston,
Dallas, Colonial. Then I am going to play two in the fall, Reno and Vegas, and that is it.
So it will be nine for the year.

Q. Looking ahead to the SENIOR TOUR, do you plan on cutting back a little bit more when
you get out there?

BRUCE LIETZKE: That is hard to do. I am going to play the SENIOR TOUR - I have got
about a little more than a year, but I also have two high school kids. I have got a
sophomore in high school and an eighth grader right now and they will still be my No. 1
priority and I am going to have to figure out -- I am going to have to figure out what I
am going to do. The tournaments are shorter on the SENIOR TOUR. They are three-day
tournaments, the first year there is two day Pro-Ams; then after that, possibly one day
Pro-Ams. I am not sure how many tournaments I will play and still feel like I am home
enough to be with the kids through their high school years. And I can say pretty assuredly
that once they are in college I will probably play the SENIOR TOUR full-time which would
be 20 events, up to 25, I think, once they are gone and becoming human beings and self
reliant and don't need me around the house. I still love to play golf. I still love to
travel. When my family can travel with me I wouldn't mind being on the road 20 weeks out
of the year. The first couple of years I am going to -- I am not sure how many weeks I
will play. I have already found out that you have to play 12. I have already checked that
to keep your membership. That hadn't changed; has it?

BRUCE LIETZKE: In fact, I'd like it to go down a little bit. But I will play at least
that many for the first couple of years until they get in college.

Q. Right now when you are not playing, your kids are in school during the day, so what
do you do to keep busy?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I have a collection of cars that I work on. I built a couple of extra
garages onto the house that I live. I am working on a 1926 Ford Roadster Hotrod that I
built from scratch, with a bare chassis and put everything on the car and I am about two
or three months from finishing that. Then I will find another project to work on. But
during the day, kids are in school; I am working on my cars. Then as soon as school is out
and my high school team is going to a golf course, then I go spend the afternoons with the
high school team. But the days are spent working in my garage.

Q. Get a little fishing in now and then?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I don't do much fishing anymore. Dallas doesn't have Lakes real close
and fishing is an all-day deal. My fishing reputation came when I lived in Oklahoma and I
lived on a lake and my bass boat sat right on the lake, I could fish for an hour or all
day. In Dallas, fishing, it is an all-day deal to get to a lake and I don't like to be
gone all day, so I fish very infrequently now and the cars -- my garage keeps me at home,
near the kids, and so I do a lot more of the garage work now and a lot less fishing.

Q. Do you fish in the tournament they have here?

BRUCE LIETZKE: I do. I haven't done very good. Today has been a good day so far so
probably should head right out there because -- I ought to go by a couple of lottery
tickets too because it was a very good day.

Q. Did they keep that going 'til the end of the week?

BRUCE LIETZKE: It may end on Fridays now. I forgot to look in the thing. Used to go
through Sunday and some of the guys complained that if they missed the cut they didn't
have a chance to win and I think they cut it is Tuesday through Friday, I think, so I need
to get out there either today or I play early tomorrow and maybe tomorrow afternoon and I
have never won that, that would be like winning a major tournament and this is our chance
because Phil Blackmar is not playing this week. That has been our -- he has won the
fishing contest here many, many times. In fact, I usually just follow him around like a
puppy. I figure out wherever Blackmar goes that is where the fish are. He is not playing,
so I am on my own. I am going to have to find the fish on my own. But it is a great spot.
Great Lakes all over the place out there and it is a great way to relax after a round of
golf.

Q. Has the increase in purse, the big increase in purses over the last couple of years,
did that ever tempt to you want to play a little bit more?

BRUCE LIETZKE: No.

Q. Did you ever look at that? Given that any thought?

BRUCE LIETZKE: No. No.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT