MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 18, 1998
Orlando Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you ever dream that A year after your brother was World Series M.V.P. you would
get the same opportunity a year later?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: No, to be honest with you, I never thought of that. 
 
Q. Talk about the similarity between the first inning in the game against Cleveland and
the long drive and catch by O'Neill tonight?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I don't remember much about Cleveland being that the past is in the
past, but I do remember today I believe it was the fifth batter who hit the fly ball to
right field when O'Neill caught it, but that is why there is nine of us and we each help
each other out. 
 
Q. Can you tell us a little bit about your guest today? I understand some people that
came from Cuba with you were your guests and how you spent the morning with them?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: This morning I was sleeping in my room with my lady. I don't know
where you get so much information here, you get some information that it is past and
present. It is part of the future that we really don't know. 
 
Q. Jose Cardenal told me that you had some people for breakfast today at your hotel and
they were folks that came with you?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: My uncle and my cousin were there, but I didn't go down to have
breakfast with them. I hardly ever have breakfast especially when I pitch. I don't eat
breakfast at all. I just eat spaghetti for lunch and that is pretty much it. 
 
Q. Did your brother make it today and if not where was he?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: My brother wasn't able to make it today because of a prior
appointment. He had a car show or things of that nature but he did encourage me. We spoke
over the phone and he spoke to me a little bit of how to pitch to this team. 
 
Q. After you pitch in such an important game, do you allow yourself at that point to
think about family and friends and all you have achieved this year? 
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: Everyday I think of my family. Everyday I think of my friends. I
also think of baseball everyday. And believe me when I tell you I think of them with my
heart. 
 
Q. Could you speak a little on being here this year in the World Series, playing last
year, you were watching and also a little on how people in your country or island were
able to watch your game today?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I feel good that the people in Cuba were able to watch the game. I
always make a point to find out prior to pitching whether or not they are going to be able
to watch it. I am very happy that they are celebrating on my behalf. 
 
Q. Talk about Jorge Posada and what he does for you behind the plate?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I think not only for me, but he also catches a number of other
pitchers including David Wells yesterday. He did a great job today, magnificent job. I
appreciate it. And I think he is one of the better up-and-coming catchers. 
 
Q. Compare the pressure of pitching in a World Series and pitching for Cuba's national
team?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: As I have said in the past, every game has pressure in it. 
 
Q. What type of cigar are you smoking, Cuban?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: No, Costa Rican. This is from Costa Rica. Then he asked if it is
Cuban. He said no. He is saving the Cuban for when we win the World Series. 
 
Q. Is it tradition to smoke a cigar after a victory?
 
 ORLANDO HERNANDEZ: I always smoke tobacco. I like to say, I like them and I enjoy them. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT