COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 6, 1996
Mark Woodforde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What is your strategy going in against a server like Goran?

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, I think it's the obvious: just to try and get the bloody ball
back over the net often enough. That's basically it, trying to make him volley. You know,
I've played him a few times, and I have a lot of respect for that serve because he's able
to serve incredibly well. That's probably one of the tennis' phenomenons, Goran
Ivanisevic's serve. Yet, I always feel if I can get it back over enough times and make him
play a little bit, you know, I feel like I'm a better player. Doesn't really make a lot of
sense, but there's probably a difference between Goran and Mark Woodforde, that's honestly
how I feel. I know a lot of players feel that way as well. If he serves like that, if he
gets it in the court, that fast, he's going to be a threat at the end of the tournament.
He's able to serve it down and doesn't have to play too many times because he just hits
everything else as hard as he can. That's really my strategy. I know he has certain
weaknesses elsewhere, from the ground, so on. But, you know, on a court like that, you
don't really get a chance to bring that into the outcome of the match because it's just
whether he's going to ace you enough or whether he's going to give you a couple of
double-faults.

Q. You're right, though, that's how you broke him, making him volley. He was unable to
do it.

MARK WOODFORDE: I mean, heck, like I said, I have respect -- lot of respect for him
because he's one of the best tennis players. But I think he's got definitely one of the
best serves. Everything else is, you know -- a guy like me would love to go back to
playing with wooden racquets, probably from yesteryear. I feel like maybe I would be a
better player. Maybe a guy like Goran wouldn't be quite a threat in all these tournaments
that have fast surfaces. That ain't to be, and you go play against him, you've got to get
that serve back as well as you can. Today, you know, I just couldn't get it back. I mean,
he was serving incredibly well, I haven't played a left-hander for a while. That was the
difference really: his serve.

Q. Can you compare his serve to Philippoussis'? 

MARK WOODFORDE: Well, I think Mark's certainly getting up there. I think Mark, I feel,
maybe I'm biased, but I think Mark is more of a complete player. You know, Mark has the
great groundstrokes. It's not like Goran doesn't hit groundstrokes, like he doesn't hit
any volleys. I think, you know, in that match, I think the crowd can see it as well, you
make him play enough, he's going to miss. Mark, I just have a feeling sometimes, even if
you get the ball over the net, then you have to stand back another ten feet because you
know there's huge forehand or backhand is coming to come out and he's going to hit that
for a winner. That's the difference, I feel.

Q. Just one more, I'm sorry.

MARK WOODFORDE: That's okay.

Q. When you hit the ball right at him today, was that a mistake or what was that?

MARK WOODFORDE: It was the only way I was going to win the match, trying to injure him,
wasn't it (laughter)? I didn't hit him hard enough, I don't think. No, it was just -- at
that stage, you know, it was just trying to get in and win a point, to try and unsettle
him a little bit, but it didn't work. He just shrugged it off, came out and served another
ace, didn't work.

Q. Mark, this year has been a year of incredible highs for yourself. If you had to just
pull out two of them as the absolute pinnacle, which two would you choose?

MARK WOODFORDE: Making the semis of the Australian Open in Melbourne, home country,
home crowd behind me. And probably maybe the Olympic gold. The Olympic gold and winning a
fourth Wimbledon were probably very close, a little different. Wimbledon is for Todd and
myself, that's our pride. But winning the Olympic gold is for Australia's pride. It's sort
of like more of a team effort. I sort of rate them maybe a little bit evenly. I think
those two are the outstanding highs of my year.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT