US OPEN
September 5, 1997
Patrick Rafter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MICHAEL FOLEY: On behalf of Heineken USA, I'd like to welcome everyone here this
morning to announce the winner of 1997 Heineken Star Award. My name is Michael Foley. I'm
president of Heineken USA, which is a USTA Corporate Champion. As part of our sponsorship
of tennis, we established this award a year ago to recognize outstanding achievement on
the court with a financial reward that benefits a needy cause. Our hope is that this award
will remind players and fans alike that donating their talents as well as their money to
good causes is a very good thing to do. Consequently the Heineken Star Award will not
benefit the winner; instead, a $5,000 donation will be made in the winner's name. This
year we decided that the $5,000 donation would be made to the Arthur Ashe Foundation as
part of Heineken USA's overall corporate endowment of $50,000 to that foundation. Voting
for the award this year changed from last year in that the public participated. The net
proceeds of the public 900 phone-in call also goes to the Arthur Ashe Foundation. I'm
pleased to announce the winner of the 1997 Heineken Star Award, Patrick Rafter from
Australia. I would like to present this award to you, Patrick, for the resilience and
endurance you showed in overcoming adversity with a sore knee in beating Andre Agassi. 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Thank you, Mate. 
 MICHAEL FOLEY: Well done. 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Well, I guess I'd like to thank Heineken for this award, and the money
they donated to the Arthur Ashe Foundation, which is a fantastic cause. Everyone in tennis
is right behind it. Having a fantastic tournament. Hopefully I can keep it going. Thank
you, very much. 
 MICHAEL FOLEY: I would now like to invite you to present this check to the managing
director of the Arthur Ashe Foundation. 
 PATRICK RAFTER: Jim. 
 JAMES KEELER: Thank you, Patrick. I really appreciate on behalf of the Arthur Ashe
Foundation and its board of directors, Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe, and I'd like to thank
Heineken USA, Michael Foley, and the many folks that have helped make this possible. Thank
you, again, Michael. Thank you, Patrick. I'm sure we'll put this to very good use to
continue the wonderful legacy of Arthur Ashe. Thanks. 
 MICHAEL FOLEY: Thank you. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT