GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1999
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ATP: Questions for Tim.  
 
Q. Satisfied with how you played?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Very satisfied with the way I played. There's a ranking -- sort of a
difference in ranking, about 10 or 12 spots. I felt like perhaps he was a slight favorite
coming into the match the way he's been playing recently; I haven't been playing so well.
But after the way I played a couple of nights ago, my confidence is definitely returning.
This can only continue that.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, it was awkward because I felt like I was in a good rhythm. Having said
that, I came back and I had set point on his serve. I started off okay, but my rhythm on
my serve wasn't quite as it was to begin with. Having said that, you know, I was really
pleased with the way I kept the pressure at 4-5, played a couple of really good rallies,
stayed in a couple of long points, got that set. Then I wanted to push my advantage. I
watched his match with Goldstein last night. Goldstein was up a set. He had breakpoints
early on and didn't convert. That was when Kiefer got back into the match. I was anxious
to keep the pressure on. 
 
Q. Is it a question of being patient, particularly in the first set?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, very much so. I think in the last couple of weeks, when you're not so
confident, you're not so happy to stay in the long rallies. I felt like my movement is a
lot better, I feel more confident with hitting the shots. Yeah, I'm happy to stay in the
long rallies. I wind up getting an opportunity, I'm still going to come forward. There
were times when I felt like I was playing (inaudible). 
 
Q. You haven't had a lot of success here in Cincinnati in the past. Is it just a
question of the year that you've had and you're just building on that?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think so. In the past, I think the first year I ended up beating
Siemerink, that was a great surprise. Then the following year, I was having a rough times
a well, actually. I lost to Medvedev pretty easily. This year, yeah, I think I'm a much
better player than previously years. I lost to Muster, which was a tough match. Now I feel
like I'm much more complete. I feel like I have a much better understanding of what I'm
trying to do on the court. It can't always work week-in and week-out. You're going to have
your bad weeks. I had a couple of poor weeks earlier. That was extra incentive to put that
right this week. So far so good. 
 
Q. Anything you needed to do to make the adjustment to playing over here?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not exactly. I think if anything I was a little bit rusty after Wimbledon.
I said before that I wouldn't do it any differently because I did need a break after that.
Two or three months on the clay, then the whole scenario around Wimbledon, it's pretty
exhausting. Coming into LA, I think perhaps I hadn't hit enough balls. Then when I got to
Montreal, I was still finding my feet. I wasn't playing particularly well. My confidence
wasn't high. But I felt like I was just beginning to find my game. I've been here since
Wednesday, so I got to put in a little bit of time on the practice court. Now it's
beginning to pay off. 
 
Q. Have you gotten to the point now where you sort of pushed pass that whole thing
about British players, everybody wondering: Is anybody going to ever come? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think I've been past that for quite some time. It's always a topic that's
talked about because we've had such a poor run in the last thousand years (laughter). No,
going back five years, then before that we hadn't had anyone at the top of the game for
such a long time. When I was younger, I think I was perhaps a little intent to prove
people wrong. But I think with the results I've had, I've done that.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: There's times when you have to be selective because Kiefer is dangerous
wherever he is on the court. He does like a target. I feel I've got to play my strengths.
Having said that, you know, you're right, when I was on the defensive, I stayed in there,
I kept making him hit extra shots. That's the way I'm going to play. It's getting the
right balance between offense and defense.  
 
Q. How do you achieve that? By work, or just growing older?
 
 TIM HENMAN: In the short-term, yes, putting in a lot of practice. I wasn't hitting the
ball very well sort of in Montreal. It doesn't mean suddenly you're a bad player
overnight. I just spent a lot of time on the practice court. Serving has definitely
helped. When you start serving well, I think that gives confidence to the rest of your
game. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think I still can get better, but it's the -- I think it's the right
attitude to have. In the past when I've played poorly, I have been a little bit cautious.
My serve is definitely one of my strengths. I think I've been serving better and better in
the last week. I hope it continues.  
 
Q. Does humidity take much of a toll?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it can, but I don't think it's really got particularly hot yet. I
played here and in Indy and in Washington. I haven't played in Washington, but I will play
this year. I've played in Indy when it's really hot. I've been playing at night, hasn't
been a real factor. I haven't had a problem in the past. Hopefully I won't have a problem
in the future. 
 
Q. What do you think about playing Kafelnikov?
 
 TIM HENMAN: He's playing as good as anyone right now. We played a lot of times. We've
always had some pretty good matches. He's won the majority of them. I definitely am going
into the match with confidence, as the underdog. I think I should enjoy it.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not really. I think we've always -- we know each other's game very well.
There are no hidden secrets, if you like. It will be a question of who comes out and plays
best on the day. I can only say that I'm really looking forward to it.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think more so in the past. I think with the way he's played this year, he
had a bad spell, but it happens to the best of us. If you struggle with your confidence,
it's a difficult time. I think Larry Stefanki has had a big influence. He's second in the
world in ranking, second in the world this year. He is playing well. I'll have to come out
and play my best to beat him. I know I'm capable of it.  
 
Q. Is he the kind of player you need to be able to beat a few times before you'll know
you're up in the top group?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think there's probably four guys, Sampras, Agassi, Rafter and Kafelnikov,
I think at the moment, they've proved that they can consistently be top four. There's no
reason why I can't. I've beaten the other three before.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT