COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 5, 1996
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. The 5-Love or 5-1, were you thinking of what happened to Todd Martin?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It definitely crossed my mind. I was actually -- at 5-1, I was obviously
serving for the match. When I served for the match against Stich, I was up 30-Love; then
played two pretty loose points. Once I got to 30-Love again, I thought, "Let's try to
make life easy, get to 40-Love." I managed to miss a pretty easy volley. Just didn't
play the best of games in the end. I got to match point. Then to lose my serve, I'm still
up a break, so you try not to press too many panic buttons. Obviously when you know a guy
came back from 5-1 at the semi at Wimbledon, it does cross your mind. I was serving well
up to then. I thought if I could play one more good game, it shouldn't be a problem. 
 
Q. Service game was pretty well, wasn't it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: If you could use the microphone (laughter) 
 
Q. Service game was pretty well?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think I served very well. It seemed like I was serving a lot of aces,
which obviously always helps. Apart from that one loose game at 5-1, I didn't feel like I
was in too much trouble on my serve. 
 
Q. You broke the 130 MPH barrier?
 
 TIM HENMAN: David said to me afterwards I hit 213, whatever, whatever that converts to.
I think it's a little bit of help with the altitude. 
 
Q. Two points from the end, good time to do it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it was. That's right. I was keen to. I had my match point, now I had
to serve for it again. Obviously, you don't want to waste another opportunity. To finish
it off, I was pleased to do so. 
 
Q. Tim, have you ever played better indoors?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it's definitely one of my best matches indoors or outdoors. I think
when I played in Ostrava, I played particularly well. I think when I beat Forget in Lyon,
I played very well. It's definitely up there with one of my best performances. 
 
Q. Is the money started to intrude a little bit on your thoughts? You're up to nearly
half a million?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Obviously I'm aware of it. Played for a lot of money today, make no bones
about it. I think you look at it from a tennis point of view, I play Boris Becker in his
hometown over five sets, I don't think it can get much better than that. Maybe to play him
at Wimbledon on center court, but that's probably his home as well. (laughter). 
 
Q. You've had a very good season. You earned some prize money. Now in two matches you
earned more than in the whole season. Isn't that a funny feeling?
 
 TIM HENMAN: How much is it? 
 
Q. 430.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Is it 430? What did I earn this year. 
 
 TIM HENMAN: I'm not complaining, that's for sure. I've had a good year. I look back at
some of the results I've had, suddenly to come here and just win two matches, pretty much
equal that, it does seem, you know, a little bit odd. I won't complain about that, you
know. 
 
Q. Tim, Becker talked about the hard work involved in generating a lot of power on the
serve. You're not the biggest guy in the world. How do you do it? Is it just a lot of
work?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it shows -- I think people have said in England that maybe I played
too much tennis this year, you know, I was tired. But, you know, I think the way I
performed, the way I served today is not somebody that's tired and has played too much. I
think I was serving, you know, pretty big by most people's standards. It shows that I can
serve big now. If I can go away and become stronger, then maybe I can serve, you know,
even more consistently. That gives me a great deal of confidence. 
 
Q. Had you really written the year off after your last tournament, and this came as a
bit of a surprise, I suppose?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think after the nationals, I thought that may have been it. So, I was
obviously going to come here and what I thought was going to be a reserve for the week. I
had my fingers crossed. Now that I've got into the tournament, I'm taking advantage of it. 
 
Q. Would the word "fairytale" apply, do you think?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I don't know. It's very pleasing. Whether it's a fairytale or not, I don't
know. 
 
Q. What can tennis do to get more players like you who really want to play? So many
escapees here? What do you recommend?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I can only speak from my point of view. I said yesterday, I've said many
times before, it's what I enjoy doing. It's my hobby. As it goes this week, I'm getting
pretty well paid for my hobby. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT