US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You reacted after this win tonight like it was a huge, huge victory. 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Like it was the finals already? 
 
Q. Exactly. Why?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I lost against her the last two times we've played. Definitely it was a
bit disappointing to lose against her at the French Open. Reach the semifinals, everyone
was expecting me to win that tournament. I wouldn't because she just kind of killed me in
that match. I just kind of felt very happy out there today because I knew I didn't play my
best tennis during this tournament so far, and I'm happy I still can play tennis out
there. 
 
Q. And at the level you're playing?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Definitely. I was a little bit worried about my game, especially the
last two matches weren't that great, the players were like Mauresmo 30. I don't even know
what Dechy is ranked. I was probably -- with my thinking, I was already like playing
against Monica. These are sometimes matches you know you're going to win, but it's going
to be like you're already somewhere else thinking about other stuff. You know, I just
played very focused today because I knew it's going to be a tough match. The wind probably
might have helped me today, because she's a very tough player. You know, she's got these
huge groundstrokes. I was playing rhythm and it gave me a little bit more time to get back
into the game and do something. 
 
Q. So what did you do different from the two prior times that she beat you?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think I served very well. Even in like Montreal, I won the
first set, and I still didn't kind of believe in myself that -- it was like a set and
3-All, I had chances to break her, but I wouldn't. Tonight I just always had -- you know,
I thought I might break her if I need it. That's what I didn't feel like when we played
two, three weeks ago. It was just the difference. I just felt very good out there tonight. 
 
Q. When was the last time you felt this good after a match, about the way you played,
the result? In Australia?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I had some good matches when I won like in Rome. I had a great
match against Lucic. I beat Kournikova, and Williams in the finals. I don't think it was
like the best match I've played, but it was just great having that victory. Against Iva
also like the week after. I lost in the quarters, but still I had some good matches. I
just made very few mistakes tonight and I served very well. You need to have that against
Monica. Just kind of have to hang in there and see what's going to happen. 
 
Q. You spoke earlier in the tournament about having lost some confidence. Did the
confidence return before the match tonight or during the match?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Before the match actually, I knew I'm in good shape, physically well, I
moved very well today. I just kind of knew where she's going to play the balls. I just got
to a lot of balls. Even she made the points at the end. Somehow when I really need it,
when it's a critical point, I hang in there, just try not to make the mistakes and let her
play as much as I can. It was just a turnaround in the whole match. You know, tough game.
But, yeah, I felt like before the match, I like playing night matches, especially when
it's a little windy, I know I have better chances because I know I don't have like the
powerful groundstrokes as they do, but the wind helps me. 
 
Q. Do you know that she really hates playing in the wind?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I mean, she plays so exact. She has like, you know, when there is
no wind out there, she just kind of hits the balls very fast. I mean, she lets you run
around. I love the wind, so it's good. 
 
Q. I'm wondering if that gave you some confidence, if you knew that she absolutely
despises it.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I didn't know she hates the wind. I didn't know. You've just got to go
out there and play. It doesn't matter what the conditions are in this tournament anyway.
It was so tough for everybody. I feel like whoever makes less errors is the winner instead
of who makes the more points. 
 
Q. What sort of a feeling did tonight's match give you for your next match and the rest
of the tournament?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: You know, I have the feeling I'm getting better again, so that gives me
a lot of confidence. I beat Monica Seles in the quarters. I knew I lost the last two of
them, but now playing Jana, played her in the semis at Wimbledon, it's a different
surface, you know. But I think I'm also a different player again. 
 
Q. How so? How are you different than at Wimbledon?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I guess I was just thinking again on the court. So that was a big
difference. Some matches before, I just would somehow hit the ball, but I just didn't know
what I'm doing out there. Tonight was a big difference again. That's what I was doing last
year, and I lost that since. I would make semifinals or win some tournaments at the
beginning of the year, but I just somehow was always like too confident. I went out there
and was just going into the match not really thinking about what I'm doing out there.
Tonight was just different because, you know, I needed it. 
 
Q. When you broke her to go up 4-3 in the second set, you won it on a net cord, were
you thinking, "Maybe this is my night when something like that happens"?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Yes. Everything was kind of on my side. Like I had two, three net rolls
over in the match -- in the game. I was a little bit lucky also with that shot. But I was
already up 40-15, so who knows if I would lose that point, what happen the next one. I
knew I made that game. I was going to play with the wind, so I was very confident, yeah. 
 
Q. Do you think over the last three months before this tournament and after the French
Open that you got a little bit tired of tennis?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I was just very happy those two Grand Slams were over, like in Europe,
French and Wimbledon. Just kind of found new motivation again to go in there, just fight
again, keep my head up. Sometimes even you lose, but you just want to go out there and be
the best again. 
 
Q. So you're saying after Wimbledon, you had lost your motivation until you got here a
little bit?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: No. I was happy after those tournaments, but I would like take a week
off, do almost nothing. You know, I knew I didn't win like the California tournaments or
in Montreal, but my game has gotten better, like tournament by tournament. I just feel
good again. I just feel like I control the game a little bit better again. 
 
Q. Is this the best you've felt since Australia or even since last year?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I felt very good in Indian Wells. I felt, you know, I beat Venus and
Lindsay at that tournament. I felt great. Also earlier, when I came to Key Biscayne, the
couple first round matches, they were just great. I almost didn't miss anything. I had
great wins, too. 
 
Q. So this year it's sort of come in and out? You've gotten your confidence, it's gone
away, come back?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It's not over yet. There's still like two matches to go. 
 
Q. What was the key to beat Novotna?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: As I said, if I'm going to play against Monica, just have to be faster
than her, just kind of let her make some mistakes. You know, she's so aggressive, if you
serve like second serve, that's why I was trying just to put the first serve in. She has
so much pace on the shots, just kind of kills you. You don't do that too often. Just let
her run, let her move. With Jana, it's kind of the same thing. You just try not to let her
come in too much, just play a very consistent game. 
 
Q. So you're hoping for another windy day?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, Jana has nothing against the wind either. I mean, she had good
matches. She beat Testud, earlier she beat Patty very surprisingly high. I think the wind
doesn't bother her at all. It doesn't me. 
 
Q. Are you somewhat disappointed you're not playing Patty?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, disappointed? You know, Jana is a very experienced player,
especially at a Grand Slam. She never chokes (laughter). Well, she always gets there, but
she has to go. She never really loses like first, second round, as some other players
would. She did against Steffi, okay. She always gets where she needs to go, especially in
the last two, since she won Wimbledon. 
 
Q. We hear you.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Whatever. They don't believe me anyway. 
 
Q. She said after Wimbledon, she felt that some players regarded her differently, maybe
even feared her now, Jana did. Do you sense that? Does winning a Grand Slam change the
players' opinion of you?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, she hasn't lost that many matches since before and after. She won
like three straight tournaments. She made the finals in Montreal -- no, semis, and she
lost against Arantxa. Yeah, I mean, she won Wimbledon, so she's a champ there. It
definitely gives you more confidence, even if sometimes you don't play well. You know the
other girls think -- they have respect. If you win a big one, they have respect,
definitely. 
 
Q. Do you still feel like the best player in the world?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, now I feel good, so don't take that away from me. 
 
Q. After your match, did you watch the baseball?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: McGwire scored 62nd. I just heard it, yeah.  
 
Q. Does that mean anything to you, that McGwire accomplishment?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think it's great. There are still like 25 more games to go, 24 now.
Everybody was watching actually that game when him and Sosa was playing. He scored his
61st. Everybody was like, "Don't change the channel." Nobody wanted to watch
tennis. I think if you see some other athletes doing well, it's just very motivating. That
somebody else is also doing great, I mean, it's a great record. There's still so many
games to go. So he can even put the record higher. Nobody can set it again, only him, next
year. 
 
Q. Will it be very disappointing for you not to win The Open?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Now, yes, because I think my game, especially tonight, has improved a
lot. If I really want, I can do well again. Against Jana, I feel pretty good. I want that
revenge back. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT