US OPEN
August 25, 1997
David Wheaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. David, there was some rumor going around before, I don't know how true it was, that
you were a bit injured, that you'd asked for a delayed start. Is that correct? 
 
 DAVID WHEATON: No, not at all. 
 
Q. That was complete --
 
 DAVID WHEATON: I was happy to play today, but not after I lost. No, no rumor at all. 
 
Q. I really just wanted to know what you thought of Greg's play? Do you think he
improved since you last played him or had last seen him?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: I saw him play over the summer. I thought he played extremely sharp
today. He served really well. You know, basically a lot of the points that I had control
of, he kind of would steal them somehow, with either a great running shot or whatever. He
played extremely sharp. I think I helped him out a little bit. Didn't quite finish off a
few points, hit some volleys aggressively enough. Yeah, you know, he played well today. I
have to say he played very well. I didn't even come close to playing at the top of my
game. That's why it was kind of a mismatch today. 
 
Q. Why do you think, David, you didn't come close to playing to the top of your game?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: That's a good question. You know, I think that you just try to get
prepared for each match and go out there and play the best match mentally and physically
you can. Today I felt like I was ready to play. Just didn't quite have -- I felt a little
flat maybe on the court. I'm not really sure what it was, to be honest. I don't really
know why I didn't play too well. I didn't feel the same as other matches this summer.
Obviously that hurts me when I wasn't kind of that razor sharp, you know, mentally and
physically I wasn't quite all there today. I'm not really sure why, to be honest. 
 
Q. You had two courses in the semi-since you've come back.
 
 DAVID WHEATON: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. You seem to be getting a bit exasperated at one point. Seemed like every forehand he
was hitting went in.
 
 DAVID WHEATON: Like I said, a lot of the shots I was hitting, I'd hit a decent volley
that would win the point normally. But, you know, he'd run over there and hit a good
forehand passing shot on a number of occasions. He was doing well with his backhand, too.
I just needed to be more aggressive on the volley. I haven't seen him play that well
before, so I wasn't quite expecting that. Once again, I think I helped him out a little
bit, too. 
 
Q. Is that the sort of performance that's going to change your perception, if his serve
is working, he's a difficult opponent, but if not?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: I know he's got one of the best serves in the game. I think today I was
impressed about his game, he didn't make a lot of unforced errors at all. Didn't miss a
lot of points in the shot. Just a handful of points he gave me in the match. I think that
was key for him. I made quite a few unforced errors, hit a few winners. But his
winner-to-error ratio seemed very good today. 
 
Q. You've been coming here quite awhile. What do you think of the new complex as a
player?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: I think it's very impressive. You know, I was kind of a little
skeptical. I didn't realize they were redoing the whole grounds as well. They've really
done a beautiful job with it. I think the locker room could be bigger. But other than
that, it's a very nice complex.  
 
Q. What are you going to be doing now? Are you going to watch some of the matches,
staying in New York, or are you going to go back and train and get ready for the next
thing?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: I haven't decided yet. I don't even know. I haven't even thought about
it yet. I expected to be here a little longer than the first Monday, so that's the way it
goes sometimes, I guess. 
 
Q. David, you've had some injury problems, am I right?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: Yeah. I had surgery to remove a bone spur on my right heel in March. 
 
Q. How long did that keep you out of the game for and keep you out of training?
 
 DAVID WHEATON: I stopped playing in November of last year. I didn't play until July of
this year. Coming out for seven months or so. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT