TENNIS MASTERS SERIES-ROMA
May 18, 2000
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It was a very impressive win. Is it the best you've had since Wimbledon first round
last year? 
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, definitely. I think, you know, to beat a Top 5 player at a
tournament like this, and I played well, too. So it was an important match I think. I've
been, you know, playing well the last couple of months and I played well here this week
and, you know, my confidence has been growing. So I believed that I could win that match
out there today and I did, which is great. 
 
Q. Have you hit with that much power and accuracy for such a stretch before?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No, probably not. I've been, you know, working on my game very hard for
the last about six months to improve my game. It was just a matter of time to start doing
it in matches and get confident. And I think, you know, a few matches make a big
difference, and I went out there in the match today confident that I could win and if I
played my game that, you know, Venus was beatable. And, like I said, I've been playing the
last couple of months and my confidence is growing and I feel great out there. 
 
Q. You know that you will even win here in Rome. I mean, Lindsay Davenport is out and
Pierce is out, so you could win this tournament. What do you think about that?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I think a lot depends on the match tomorrow. That will be probably one of
the tougher matches and a very tough opponent. And, you know, the match tonight, you know,
I played well, it's given me confidence. There's still a few things to improve on. If I
play well tomorrow, I mean, I think there's a good chance for me to get at least to the
Final. And, you know, it's very hard to say at the moment because there's just, you know,
still great players in the tournament. The Quarterfinals, even if I did that, it's a long
way to go and I'm just taking it a match at a time. 
 
Q. Have you talked with Tony Roche before the match? And if yes, has he given you some
particular suggestions?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I spoke to him after my second match, I had -- it's been a day since I
spoke to him. But, you know, we just talked about, you know, how my game has been going
and what we've been working on. And like I said, if I do what I've been working on, I
should be doing well in tournaments. And the last couple of months I, you know, I've done
that. And, you know, I think I believe that I could go out there and win that match today
and I think so did he. But, you know, there's always -- I mean playing someone like Venus,
she's a tough competitor. But, you know, he's given me a lot of confidence and a lot of
support. 
 
Q. You got to 4-Love in the second set, then it came up to 4-2, then Love-30. Was there
a little letdown there, sort of a catching-breath situation?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I think the crucial game was when I lost my serve at 4-Love, but I
was still, you know, a break up. She held the serve 4-2. In Love-30 I was sort of rushing
a little bit. I felt like, you know, everything had to go quick and then she got a, you
know, she got a few games. So I slowed down a little bit. I think I played a good game
there to come back, which was good. But if I didn't hold, it would have been very tough, a
different story. Anything could have happened. But I think mentally I was tough there, and
I've been tough in my matches, long games I've been trying to win, and, you know, break
serves and hold my serve. And that's also helped me I think a lot, too. 
 
Q. After Wimbledon last year, your results weren't all that good until recently, so how
important was it to get back tonight against an opponent of this caliber to you?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I think after Wimbledon I, you know, had a few tough matches, you know,
maybe I could have won some of those but, you know, I played well for, you know, a couple
of years and I think mentally and physically I just wasn't there in a few tournaments,
then that sort of let me down a little bit and my confidence was down. But, like I said,
I've been, you know, even if I lose in a tournament, I've been working hard and working on
my game and I knew that, you know, eventually it would come together because I think it's
just, you know, confidence. That's all it was. And, you know, I had some -- I had two good
tournaments just recently and I've had three good wins. It's helped me a lot to come into
this tournament, and I've played three consistently good matches here and hopefully I'm
back on track. But I think it's working out because what I've been working on with Tony
Roche is, you know, I've been trying to put that into matches, you know, win or lose. And
I knew that if I did that, you know, I'll get back on track. 
 
Q. Is it right that you don't want to play in the Olympic Games for Australia?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No. I played Fed Cup this year and if everything works out and I'm
healthy, I'll play.  
 
Q. Do you speak with Monica Seles sometimes and do you speak in English or Yugoslavian?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Mostly English, a bit of both sometimes. I see her around locker rooms,
I've spoken to her before. You know, we had a few conversations, you know, about tennis
and, you know, different things before. So we know each other and -- but I think just like
everybody, I try to talk to everyone. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT