US OPEN
September 13, 1998
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Where is your family from? 
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yugoslavia. Yeah, it was fairly hard, that's the reason why we moved. I
think it was a better place to live anyway. 
 
Q. Was your family involved in any of the fighting?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No. 
 
Q. How old are you now?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: 15. 
 
Q. When do you turn 16?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: April, next year. 
 
Q. So you have potentially three more years?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. 
 
Q. Does this make up a bit for the French Open?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yes, it does. I think -- I knew it was going to be fairly tough going
into the tournament, but I knew if I played well I could win. There is a lot of matches
and a lot of good players to beat. I knew I had to play well to win. You got Pat and Mark
playing the final, just the -- I think that Aussies doing quite well now. I think we need
someone in the women's -- we need a few more players to be ranked better than they are.
We've got good men. You look at Rafter and Mark, I would like to be up there. Yeah, yeah,
definitely. Hopefully, yeah, we've been doing quite well and playing well. 
 
Q. Where is home?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Sydney. I'm planning to play juniors in the Orange Bowl (sic) this year.
I am actually playing a WTA event, going to try to get into it. 
 
Q. You are not going to play the Australian juniors?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I don't know. I'm limited so I might play that. It was huge at home. I
think I got my confidence then and played very well just doing it for Australia it was
great to get us back to group two. Then I was trying to get home and getting ready for
this. The juniors are better players, but I think still playing in the juniors if you look
at the top juniors Carol Black is doing well. I think the top juniors -- it's good to play
the juniors tournament there is a lot of good players, to win those matches are very
important. You sort of got to get used to those players. I've been working on pretty much
everything with Leslie, groundstroke, a bit of everything. You can always improve. You
need a lot of shots you have to have everything to play. 
 
Q. Besides the fact that you've done well in Grand Slams this year, was there any
particular goal to win this because of the No. 1 ranking; are you pursuing that?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yes, definitely, I was No. 1 after the French, a couple points behind
right now. But by winning this I'm back to No. 1., that's one of my goals to finish this
year -- to finish No. 1. I think that's fairly important to me. I wanted to win a Grand
Slam anyway. I got close in all the Grand Slams. I really wanted to win this one and get
my No. 1 ranking back. 
 
Q. What have been your records at Grand Slams?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Semis, Australian. Finals at the French. Semis at Wimbledon. 
 
Q. Any other interests outside of tennis?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Rollerblading, shopping, but I haven't got much time for that. I don't
think tennis players have got a lot of time. 
 
Q. Do you have a boyfriend?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No, not right now. 
 
Q. What school do you go to?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I am actually doing correspondence in Dover Heights, in Sidney.  
 
Q. What are your best subjects?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: History and science, I hate math. 
 
Q. Who's here with you, your mom and dad?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No, just (inaudible), she's always traveling with me now. 
 
Q. Any brothers and sisters?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Brother, seven. 
 
Q. Is he a tennis player?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No. 
 
Q. Where is your mom and dad from originally?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yugoslavia. 
 
Q. What language do you speak at home?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yugoslavian at home, sometimes English. They speak to me, but my brother
and I speak English all the time. No, not really I think every player is different. It's
just the way you play, you cannot sort of copy someone else of what they are doing. I've
been told a lot that I sort of play like them. You shouldn't model your game on anyone
because the game you play is always different then someone else's. I am actually going to
speak to Mark in 15 minutes, before he goes on. 
 
Q. What's the strength of your game? 
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Groundstrokes, I think I pretty much do everything in my groundstrokes.
I've been working on my volley and my serve has improved compared to the way it was. I
think my serve has sort of helped me. Semis, Australian. Finals, at the French, and semis
at Wimbledon. 
 
Q. When did you start to play?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Six. 
 
Q. Any story of how you got started?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: My Dad sort of got me into it. I had chances at Wimbledon and I sort of
always look back at that. I had chances there. I should have won it, but that passed. I
was sort of -- I always take it one at a time. That was an important point that I said I
was not going to miss. I think you should always take the first chance because anything
could happen after that. Plus I came back from a lot of matches, match point down. I like
it a lot, I'm used to it now. Sidney is great. I like to play. Two years away is still a
long time, anything could happen. But I like to play. I've been in Australia for five
years. Yeah, and that was the main reason. It was very hard over there to play tennis and
get out of there to play tennis and travel, it was very hard. In terms of everything, it
doesn't matter how much you were earning, it was still very hard. 
 
Q. How long have you been on the road?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I was away for ten weeks, then I was home for a week, went to play Fed
Cup, played for three weeks, now I'm back up (inaudible.) I like traveling. The time goes
fairly quickly. I think traveling on the junior circuit, I really enjoy it. When I've got
time, yes. She says you should look at this player and see what he does, or see what she
does. I think that's important too, the way they are playing. I am going to watch Mark and
Pat this afternoon. I can't sort of finish everything when I am playing tennis. I'll leave
in the morning, come back at nine and you don't even have time. When I'm away for ten
weeks, I have to come back and catch up on everything. Well, my parents; my coach thought
it was too much trouble so. Beginning of this year after the Australian Open. 
 
Q. Who's going to win this afternoon?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: It's going to be tough, I think Pat will. He's more experienced. I think
Mark might be a little bit nervous, but I think Pat will. Pat has been playing great the
last few weeks. He beat Pete yesterday which I didn't think he would, it's going to be
tough. I don't know, it's just a matter of -- it's tough, I don't know why they're sort of
doing well. We've been playing well lately, especially the men, women not as much. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT