LPGA MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 1999
Pat Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PAT BRADLEY: Yes, I'd love to, Kirsten. Myself and Debbie Massey who is assisting the
Solheim team of 2000 and I arrived in Glasgow on Wednesday morning. We took a 20-minute
drive to the hotel and then from there we went directly to Loch Lomond and just kind of
got a feel for the site. I was extremely impressed. I have watched the European Tour play
a tournament, but just from the television set, so it was really quite exciting to be
there in person and walk the same fairways that these great Europeans play each year there
at this tournament. It is a golf course that I feel very, very comfortable being at. It
does have a little touch of an American look to it being maybe -- maybe being that Tom
Weiskopf was the architect in the design. I feel that it has a tremendous variety and a
lot of options for setup for the players to contend with. It has generous fairways and I
think they will stay that way. I asked if they would bring and tighten up the fairways and
I think they are planning on leaving them as they are at this time which -- it was quite
generous. The greens were -- they are smaller than I anticipated. I thought they would be
larger so your iron-play will definitely be a premium with this golf course. But I was, as
I say, I feel that it is a terrific Match Play golf course. It played soft at this time of
the year in October. They had seven inches of rain in their September month so it made the
golf course play quite soft and if that holds true next year in October, it will allow the
players to be very aggressive and feel confident with shooting in at the pins. I think it
will generate a tremendous excitement and I feel very comfortable that my players will
adjust to this golf course and feel quite at home with it.

Q. I'd like to ask you, given the obvious recent Ryder Cup events, why do you think the
large number of European players who play on the LPGA Tour have avoided similar kinds of
incidents with spectators? 

PAT BRADLEY: I am not sure I avoided being -- I am not sure what your question is.

Q. Yeah, Colin Montgomerie, whenever he plays in America on the U.S. Tour, or in Majors
he seems to attract an element that fans seem to want to make life difficult for him.
Obviously we have a large number of Scottish players and English and Swedish players who
regularly play on your Tour, but they seem to be very well accepted. Is this entirely done
to the women's galleries being better behaved or how is that a better relationship?

PAT BRADLEY: I am not positive on what the difference is. But I do know that the
European players, they play over in our country on such a regular basis that I believe
they feel as if this is their second home. They have become friends of ours as well as
competitors of ours. They have really struck up a great relationship with the Americans
galleries that are over here. They actually live in the United States when they are over
here and I think they are considered -- this is their second home. I know that they are
highly received by our galleries because they support this Tour as greatly as they do that
they are highly accepted.

Q. Congratulations on being captain.

PAT BRADLEY: Thank you, Bob.

Q. I had an opportunity to play Loch Lomond myself this summer and I came away with a
little bit of what you said in your opening comments that it is very much an American-type
golf course. Shouldn't this prove to be quite an edge for the United States team whereas
they are not going to have to play a traditional European course that they are not quite
as familiar with?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, that -- I have thought of that also, Bob. That is why I think -- I
feel that the U.S. players will adjust quite easily because there won't be the
bump-and-run that European golf is so known for. I also believe that because the European
players play in the States as often as they do, they have adjusted quite nicely to that
American style or that American feel. So I feel that that is what is going to balance it
out and kind of keep everyone equal is because the Europeans are very familiar with our
type of golf because they are over here playing it so much and then with us going over
there, there won't be that big of adjustment to a bump-and-run and I believe that that
will help us in adjusting to that golf course.

Q. Certainly going to be exciting as you said because of those small greens, when you
play Match Play over there it really is going to be probably a lot more exciting than if
you had big greens; probably very similar to the country club up in Boston?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, you are very right, Bob. In fact, I kind of made a mental note that
there were some of them that were on the same scale as the country club; especially on the
shorter par 4s, they had them -- they were much smaller greens and they were well
protected. Now, on a longer par 4, the greens -- or par 5, the greens seem to be much
larger and they weren't quite as protected as maybe a short par 3. So I do feel that it
will generate a lot of a Match Play atmosphere, a shoot-out atmosphere because you are
definitely going to have to be on your game with your irons especially.

Q. Look forward to seeing you there.

PAT BRADLEY: Thank you, Bob.

Q. Who is going to form the nucleus of your team? Who do you want to have? Who do you
got to have on the team and who do you think will be the stars for you?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, I believe the nucleus will be the players that have been in the
Solheim Cup the last two Solheims for sure. Of course, I have Juli that is sitting at the
top of the list and has had such a great year and, you know, I feel that Juli and Dottie
and Meg and Kelly Robbins will be my rock. These four players will be my rocks and I look
forward to being right alongside with them. I also have an eye out for some young players
that I am watching very closely and hoping that next year, with double points, you know,
we will see some movement in the standings and it will be very exciting as crunch time
comes down the stretch.

Q. Kathy Whitworth told us just the other day she was never as nervous in her career
when she was -- when she captained the first team - trying to decide who to pair with each
other. How do you intend to handle the kind of pressure that you are going to face?

PAT BRADLEY: I have talked to Judy Rankin and Judy told me that it will probably be one
of the toughest decisions that I will ever have made in my career is deciding, (1) who my
pick should be or will be and, (2) putting the right pairings together. So I really won't
know. I am sure it won't be as obvious as one might hope. But yet I feel that the quality
of the players that I have, that I can interact with most of them and I feel like I can
come out with a winning formula. But it will be something that I know will be
nerve-wracking and I will be aware of that and just could the best I can.

Q. Ever been in a similar position in your career?

PAT BRADLEY: To tell you the truth, Ken, I captained the Nichirei at one time in my
career, early back, but that was a team-type atmosphere on our Tour, but I think this will
be definitely a whole new experience for me. It will be -- you know, you go through life
trying to go get through challenges and this will be a challenge but it is a challenge
that I look forward to. When I talked to Ben Crenshaw last Thursday -- I mean, Thursday of
the Ryder Cup, he said it will be probably one of the toughest jobs that I will encounter
but yet it will be one of the most challenging and one of the most rewarding jobs. I look
at it with that excitement and I look forward to that challenge.

Q. Of the European team or the potential European team, which of the players have
impressed you, most of the ones currently performing regularly on the LPGA Tour? 

PAT BRADLEY: Well, one young player that has impressed me very much-and I have played
with her a number of times and she is a native of your land-and that is Janice Moodie.
This young player is mature beyond her years. She really has a great attitude about the
game and about how she wants to play it. Each time that I have played with her, I have
always enjoyed my day with her and she can play. She is going to be a great asset to the
European team.

Q. What elements of her game in particular do you like, Pat?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, I do like her disposition. I mean, I do like her attitude. She has
got a good head on her shoulders, but physically, she is a strong ball-striker. I mean,
she can -- she really can hit that ball a long way. She is working very hard on her
putting. I think, if anything held her back at all, would be adjusting to the different
types of greens and the different types of speeds that we play each week. But this young
lady is going to be a force on the LPGA Tour and she is definitely an asset, not only to
the European Tour, but she is an asset to the LPGA Tour. She is a delightful young laid
key.

Q. Do you think her first win is far off?

PAT BRADLEY: I don't think it is far off at all, sir. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised
if it doesn't come early next year.

Q. After the last Solheim Cup, Ben Crenshaw was very interested in everything that Judy
Rankin did. He just wanted to know what she did well so that he might have an opportunity
to incorporate that in his role. Now I know you have mentioned that you spoke to Ben, but
as I understand it, was that before the Ryder Cup started?

PAT BRADLEY: Yes, Bob, I saw him on the driving range on Thursday. We just gave one
another a hug and I wished him good luck and he just had a big smile on his face and he
went off and running. But I do hope to get in touch with Ben. We play a tournament in
April down in Austin and I am hoping that maybe after things have settled down that we can
maybe get together and I can pick Ben's brain a little bit on how things went and I am
also very fortunate that I do have Judy Rankin that is not far from this Tour that I can
call and talk with. In fact, I saw Judy in Columbus, Ohio a couple of weeks ago before I
left for Loch Lomond and we sat and chatted a little bit. So I really feel very fortunate
that I have two terrific people that are on either side of me that I know if I needed any
help or needed a little bit of advice I can go to these people and get the very best.

Q. Ben used Bruce and Bill a lot, Pat. I know you mentioned the name Debbie Massey.
Will she be assisting you at Loch Lomond?

PAT BRADLEY: Yes, I do, Bob. I did notice how Ben did use Billy and Bruce. He leaned on
those two guys about quite a bit. I know those guys were thrilled to be able to, you know,
have Ben lean on them if he needed it. The Solheim Cup has grown tremendously in the last
few years and Judy, you know, had (inaudible). . . A kind of a throw things off or bounce
things off and things like that. So I have asked Debbie Massey who is a two-time women's
British Open Champion. She is a former LPGA President of our Tour and she has been a good
friend of not only my friend, but a friend of a lot of the players out here and I think
she will be a tremendous help for us all.

Q. You might want to ask Ben, he did bring two caddies up there, his former caddie and
also Bruce Edwards caddied for Tom Watson for so many years to kind of attend to the needs
of the caddie and that seemed to work out very well.

PAT BRADLEY: I agree, Bob. I noticed that and made mention of that to our commissioner
when I saw Bruce Edwards there and I thought it was a terrific idea because things are
happening so fast and everybody is kind of spread out that it was a marvelous idea and
that is something that we are keeping -- that we are keeping in the back of our minds. I
talked to a few of my players and they mentioned that in the past they have elected, like
one of the guys that is there that week, they, among themselves, elect somebody as a
captain to kind of keep an eye on one another and help one another out. But there also
might be a need to bring someone over that will just cater to the guys because they are
going to be busy too. It might be very beneficial, Bob, you are right.

Q. It might be too early to ask this, but do you intend to in anyway share mental
advice to the players; some kind of pre-match rally or post-event meeting and what kind of
mental advice would you offer to a player of that level?

PAT BRADLEY: I just got together with them before I went over to Loch Lomond and we
went over a few thoughts and a few ideas. I think one of the key things that we are
working on right at this moment is thinking of each other as teammates, possible
teammates. So like when we get over there a year from now and we get pulled together and
it is Solheim Week, it is not like, oh, geez, we have got to adjust now to being a
teammate. So we are starting now in pulling ourselves together and looking at one another
as teammates. I think that right there is a terrific start in helping us adjust to the
challenge that Solheim will give us.

Q. Looking back to 1996, Pat, the last time it was played in Europe, the last day
obviously the American team had that astonishing single's performance, almost astonishing
compared to either Brookline of winning 10 of the 12 singles. Can you speak about just how
that kind of momentum can build up on a day like that? I know obviously you lost your
match. How can something like that snowball in the way it does when, on paper, the teams
or players are evenly matched?

PAT BRADLEY: You are absolutely right, Ken. It really is an exciting feeling. It is an
exciting moment to be out there and, of course, see all the red numbers that your team
might produce and then I have to also say it is a very tough feeling to look up and see
the different colors, the blue color of the Europeans. It really is a type of snowball
that comes from within. I mean, it is a never-give-up-mode. Match Play things can
turnaround in a heartbeat. That is why we get to keep telling ourselves that we must hang
in there all the way to the end. But when it starts to light up, it is just -- it is a
very exciting feeling and it is from within. Unless you are involved in it or you are a
part of it, it is really -- it is tough to explain, but it is a feeling that definitely is
from within and it really -- it is like electricity that goes throughout your body. It
registers in your mind that things are going; things are rolling, and you just want to
stay in that positive mode.

Q. Do you remember much about the night before? Was there any kind of similar type of
rallying thing to what Ben introduced or did you just quietly go about the task of trying
to overhaul what was a 9-7 deficit...

PAT BRADLEY: I remember we were all together at dinner and Judy had a few words of
encouragement and telling us just to play our own games and to hang in there from the
first tee to the last putt and not to let -- don't let our guard down. She was very much
in helping us to stay within ourselves and, you know, we kind of got together and spoke of
what we wanted to do. We wanted to come out early. We wanted to come out quick. We wanted
to put the numbers up fast, to make people start to think about us and keep an eye on us,
look over their shoulder on us and that is exactly what happened. We hit it up early.

Q. The competition just finally -- the way it is, I suppose with some people said the
Ryder Cup was similar that it took America to lose it for the interest to really grow in
your country. Where do you see the Solheim Cup currently in the U.S. supporting
consciousness? Is it creeping in there or is it something that still needs a bit of work?

PAT BRADLEY: Luckily I feel -- I feel that because of the Ryder Cup's excitement and
growth in the last few years, it has just piggy-backed us into the thrust of things. I
don't feel that we need to lose to make that change, but it has gained incredible
excitement in a very, very short period of time. And with the European's younger players
coming into the fold I think it automatically has brought a new level to the Solheim Cup
and a new level of excitement. I really don't think that we need to lose to help it thrust
it into another level.

Q. You may have answered it in your last response, but what is the best advice you have
ever received from a golf coach that you have had in your career?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, one of the best advices I have ever received is to go easy on
myself. I, as a player, was always very, very hard on myself and very critical of myself
when I played. I did not accept mediocre when I was playing. The advice that I received
was to lighten up on myself; pat myself on the back a little bit more than I had been and
embrace the moment rather than fear the moment. Those are the things that I keep with me
today and those were the thoughts that I work on that help me to get into the Hall of
Fame.

Q. Any one person in particular that shared that or showed you that concept?

PAT BRADLEY: Yes, and he works with a number of great players on both the LPGA Tour and
the PGA TOUR and that is doctor Bob Rotella.

Q. Is the role of a captain in golf in these team competitions overstated or are some
people being modest when they say they only have a small role to play in the outcome?

PAT BRADLEY: That is an interesting question. I mean, I know I will play a role in this
Solheim and I look forward to that role that I play, but it is my players that really
should and deserve to receive the credit for their play. They are the ones out there that
are actually going through the work and, you know, making the shots. I do look forward to
the role that I will play and hopefully it will be a successful one. But my players are
the ones that deserve the credit. They are the ones that are working day in and day out
the rest of this year and all of next year to have the opportunity to represent their
country. So I believe that they are the ones that deserve the credit.

Q. What about when it comes to the pairings for the foursomes and the four-ball, are
you going to be somebody that sits down with the players and really gets their take on who
they would like to be partnered with or are you going to be quite head-strong about it and
do perhaps what Ben did and go, if you like, on hunches a little bit?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, I mean, this is a team effort and my team will definitely be a part
of it. But I will make the decisions. I am not opposed to discussing some thoughts with
certain players or a player. But I will run certain things by people, but I will be making
the decisions.

Q. Just two things, (1) I think that the Solheim family certainly deserves a lot of
credit. They went into unchartered waters to create this event. I don't think anybody
there even dreamed that it would be the success that it has attained. But certainly they
did a marvelous thing for women's golf in creating this event?

PAT BRADLEY: Absolutely, Bob. It is incredible, the Solheims have been pioneers in the
game of golf, mainly the equipment side of it and here they are, they have been pioneers
on the LPGA Tour. I mean, these people went out on a limb to be a part of the LPGA years
and years ago and once again, they put together this Solheim Cup, again it was at first
unchartered waters and they had the strength and the courage to step forward and put it
together. We are beneficiaries of that courage. I am just honored and pleased to have the
opportunity to be a part of this with this family.

Q. Speaking of that, how did you find out that you were going to be the captain and did
you get a phone call? Did they invite you down? What was your immediate reaction, Pat?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, I was thrilled to death was my immediate reaction. I received a call
from the commissioner of the LPGA and Ty said that I was chosen and I was thrilled. I was
hoping. I wanted it. I wanted to have the opportunity. I wanted the challenge of this
great moment so I was thrilled when Ty called me and said I would be the one for the year
2000.

Q. It is going to be a great one.

PAT BRADLEY: Thank you, Bob.

Q. You mentioned earlier on that there is a few of the young American players you would
like to see step up next year and make a claim for the team. Obviously without putting on
-- putting undue pressure on some of these players, could you single one or two out that
you would perhaps expect big things from?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, one young player that is in the standings at this moment is Kelly
Kuehne. I am very impressed with this young player and how she has stepped to the
forefront this year and played quite well. Obviously she has a terrific Match Play record
in the amateur ranks, like Tiger Woods has, so this is a young player that I am hoping
that will maintain her standings and build on what she has been doing and will be a
terrific force come October of next year.

Q. Do you have two captain's picks?

PAT BRADLEY: Yes, I will have two captain's picks.

Q. What will your criteria having seen Loch Lomond now be for that? Does that influence
it?

PAT BRADLEY: Well, it won't have a major influence on it, but I do have a few players
that I have my eye on. I am not going to give out any at this moment, but when it comes
down to crunch time and when I make my picks I will probably explain more my thoughts and
my choices.

Q. How do you feel about the ten that you have at the moment? Would you feel reasonably
confident going into battle with that group of 10? I know obviously we are talking about a
year away, but looking at the lineup that you would have, it seems to be quite a nice
mixture; is that what you will hopefully have?

PAT BRADLEY: I hope to have a great mixture. I mean, I hope to have the veterans. I
hope to have maybe some young players that are showing some veteran stature. I am pleased
that I have some more time left next year. With double points there will be a lot of
jockeying, I believe, on the list, so it will be very exciting for all of us to watch.

PAT BRADLEY: Appreciate that. Thank you all, very, very much. Look forward to it.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT