U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Ann Grossman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ann, can you tell us what you thought of Gabriela's game today?

ANN GROSSMAN: I thought she played well from 2-All in the first set. I mean, she was
hitting the lines on really big points. I mean, they were going right in, they were right
on the line or right next to it. I didn't think she made that many mistakes. I thought she
played pretty well because I came out playing pretty well. When I got to 2-All, I stopped
being more aggressive than what I should have. You know, I mean, I thought she played a
good match. I think everybody's kind of being a little hard on her, you know.

Q. Why do you suppose that is?

ANN GROSSMAN: What do I suppose?

Q. Why do you suppose people are being hard on her?

ANN GROSSMAN: I just think a lot of girls are playing really good tennis now and
there's a lot more upsets than there have been. I don't think y'all are used to it maybe
so you're like, "My gosh, what's happening to this player?" There's a lot of
good players that are coming out and playing good tennis against the top players. They're
going to have their bad days, too, just how everybody does.

Q. When you step out on the court, do you consider her one of those top players? Is she
still where she was a couple years ago?

ANN GROSSMAN: The last time I played her, I beat her in Berlin in '94. I definitely had
confidence going out into the match. I wasn't scared of her at all. That's because I've
had wins over a lot of top players. You know, I'm not scared to walk on the court against
anybody. As far as being where she is, I mean, I haven't played her in two years. I just
focus on myself; I don't focus on what the other players are doing.

Q. Was there anything with your game you were disappointed with today? You said you
stopped being aggressive.

ANN GROSSMAN: Yeah. Well, for one thing, I hurt my wrist in San Diego. I wasn't able to
hit backhands. I wasn't even able to practice backhands before my first match. I didn't
tape it because I'd rather deal with the pain than my opponent seeing that I have a
problem, you know. I didn't have any confidence on my backhand at all. I made so many
mistakes just because I haven't been able to practice it. You need repetition, to go out
there, to be confident, especially when you're walking onto center court at the US Open.
You want to be playing your best. It was just unfortunate that this happened to me. I won
my first round, I beat Farina who I lost to a couple weeks ago. I felt if I had made a few
more backhands and been more aggressive, it definitely would have been a lot closer. It
was unfortunate, but those things happen.

Q. Do you feel Sabatini is susceptible to losing to a more aggressive player down the
road?

ANN GROSSMAN: Yeah, definitely. If I would have come in more and really believed that I
could come in and volley and take the overheads and stuff, it definitely would have made
it a lot tougher on her, I think. You know, she rises to the occasion when somebody does
it also, so it just depends.

Q. Is there a perception among the players that perhaps her time has passed?

ANN GROSSMAN: I don't know. I mean, that's a difficult question. It's not for me to,
you know, say that. I don't think any player at any time. It depends on where they are in
their personal life. There's a lot of stuff that goes on. It's difficult on the Tour day
in and day out to remain on the top. It's life, you know. I'm sure you have your up and
downs, too, throughout the years. One day you're doing really well, the next you're not
feeling so good. Anything is possible, any given day for anybody. If they choose to want
it, that's my thought.

Q. What's different in her from when you beat her?

ANN GROSSMAN: What's different in her?

Q. What did she show you today that might be different from the last time?

ANN GROSSMAN: I made a lot of errors, you know. I'm more looking at myself, what I did
wrong; not what she was doing. I felt like I made a lot of unforced errors. I feel like I
need to be a bit stronger and get in better shape to hang in there on those long points.
Her balls were hitting real high on me. I wasn't letting go. Sometimes I get in there and
don't let go, let my ability play. I kind of hold myself back for reasons I don't know why
sometimes. I just do that. It's something I have to overcome for me to play my best
tennis. I felt like I was holding back a little bit.

Q. Ann, there's a lot of running out on the court by both players. Who was running who
more?

ANN GROSSMAN: I don't know, who was? (Laughter). I felt like I was doing a lot of
running.

Q. You had her running also? 

ANN GROSSMAN: I had her runs also? Cool, right on. Yippy.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT