U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Ann Grossman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk a little bit about the match; are you disappointed? 

ANN GROSSMAN: You know, I have never played the stadium out here and, you know, I was
looking forward to it. It was really tough because you know, they signed us on grandstand
and I have never played on that and I have never played on stadium and so it was like
going back and forth and I haven't even ever out -- I haven't ever hit out there in my
life. Playing somebody, No. 2 in the word and never being on stadium court and I feel like
I am playing great tennis. But it is very hard mentally when you go out there and you
don't know what to expect; never hit a ball, and, you know, there is just so much emotion
going in my mind because I am excited to be out there and my heart just couldn't stop. I
couldn't just relax and play my game. I would just make errors, and I feel totally capable
of beating her one day. She is just a counter-puncher. She gets everything back, and, you
know, I had a pretty good match with her in Australia, and, you know, it is just
unfortunate that I don't play out there very often, so it is very -- it doesn't -- you
know what I mean? It is such a different feeling, I can't explain it. So. . . 

Q. What is the biggest difference out there; is it the size of the place? 

ANN GROSSMAN: Yeah, it is just -- it is the mystique of it, you know, here you are at
the U.S. Open on stadium court, you are on television and it is just -- I have been
playing extremely well tennis; I am getting more used to it, and but, you know, I have to
reach that next step. That is my next step now. I have been consistently doing well and
this is my next step. And I wish hopefully today I was going to change, but you know, it
will come one day. It wasn't meant to be and I will just-- you know, next Grand Slam. 

Q. Obviously you mean that next step is beating one or two or three or four? 

ANN GROSSMAN: Definitely. I beat Martina in L.A.. I have beating all the top 10
players. It is just now I think getting to the quarters of a Grand Slam, getting to the
semis, I think I am totally capable of it. You know, I have been consistently beating
them. Arantxa, I mean, she is -- I have always have a very tough time playing her because
she is so consistent and, but you know, what can I say? She played well today and I made a
lot of dumb mistakes. My heart was pounding so fast I couldn't settle down, you know, and
she is used to it. That is like nothing for her just walking out there and playing she
does it every single day so... 

Q. How did they tell you that you were going to go on stadium; did they say Sampras won
the fourth set? 

ANN GROSSMAN: First they were like, okay, forget it, you aren't going on grandstand.
Night before, this is what they want to do. They want to have these three matches and then
they think they are all going to go really quick; then we are going to switch you over. So
you know, and then they come in the lockerroom and say, no way, you are not playing on
stadium. You are on grandstand. I am like, fine. Then they come back, he was cruising 3-0,
you are going to be on stadium, and I was excited because I never been out there, and that
was one of my goals this year was to play on every stadium court, and I did, Australian
and here, so you know, it is tough. Because I had no preparation, really. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT