U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
MaliVai Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. We were talking a little bit about it here, are you getting used to these five set
things? You know, you have played quite a few. 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: Yeah, I have had quite a few this year. I had a couple of in
Australia, and this one. And I don't know, I feel pretty comfortable when I get -- today I
was down two sets to one and I don't know, I just figure if I could get through that third
set -- there were times in the match where it was kind of lulling through, both holding at
love and just couldn't get any rhythm on my return when he was serving, and I was hoping
if I could just get through that fourth set, you know -- I felt real good about about the
fifth because, you know, lately the last few months or last couple of years, I have been
playing some great five-set matches and I felt good. I'm glad I was able to pull it out
today. 

Q. Is there a time in the match when you get to the point where you think that is the
way it is going to go; that it is going to be one of these long drawn out five-setters? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: Well, when I was down two sets to one I had a pretty good idea. I
thought I could -- I thought I could have won it in four. I was feeling pretty good after
winning the second set and I played one loose game. I was holding real comfortably, you
know, early in the third, I was holding at Love, holding Love and then just played a real
loose game and let him break me. That was the set-- he just held onto the serve throughout
the fourth -- throughout the third, I guess. If I could have played the kind of tennis on
my serve like I did in the fifth, if I could have done that in the third set, I could have
won it in four sets. 

Q. How long does it take you to come back completely physically now; what you do over
the course of the next 24, 48 hours? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: I don't think it will take a whole lot. Not with that match because
the weather wasn't hot at all. And I don't know how long the match was, but it didn't seem
extremely long. I have definitely had tougher physicallywise -- I have definitely had
physically tougher matches. So I don't think it will be too tough to recoup. I will take
in a lot of fluids and get some good chow, get a good dinner tonight, some good pancakes
tomorrow morning, and I mean, that is about it - just the normal routine. I feel pretty
good right now. I am not feeling tight or sore right now. I think I will be fine tomorrow.


Q. Have you played him before? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: No. 

Q. Did it take any time at all to accustomize yourself to the serving motion, little
strange? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: About four and a half sets. You know, I don't know, he was kind of
serving, he had the same pattern. He was serving, you know, to the same spots a lot. But,
you know, all of a sudden sometimes you think he would be going wide or something and he
would just take a bullet up the middle. It is a different kind of motion and it is kind of
surprising that he can come with the heat like he does. I guess it is just his real quick
hand action on the serve, with a great deal of spin. You don't know where the ball is
coming from. In a flick of the wrist he could be going wide or take it up the middle. You
just got to go where you think it is going. I guess in the fourth I was reading it a
little better. I was able to make him play a lot more returns in the fourth and the fifth.


Q. Everyone keeping saying it seems to be a pretty wide open field; questions about
Sampras and then with Ivanisevic going down earlier. How do you feel about the field? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: I think when you get to Grand Slam tournaments the field is always
wide open. I mean, you are never going to have like the top four seeds in the semifinals
or something like that. I don't know if it has ever happened because so many factors go
into it, injuries, long five-set matches early in the tournament, you know, the heat, I
mean, whatever. I don't know what Goran's problem was today, but, you know, he might have
been ailing a little bit, but you got to expect that. There are so many tough guys out
there. I can't say it was a fluke Goran lost because I was watching some of the match. The
guy was serving big and he was hitting some big shots. Goran might not have been on his
game completely. That is the way tennis goes, and heck, it could have gone that way with
me today. Few more games, I could have been out of there in four sets. 

Q. Feeling pretty confidence coming into the tournament? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: Yeah, I feel okay. I have had some pretty good wins this summer
over some good guys, and got thumped last Friday, 0 and 3, over in Hamlet; that didn't do
too much for me, but, you know, coming in I felt good. I am glad I was able to get that
match under my belt tonight. 

Q. Mal, is there something about this tournament that gets you jacked up more than any
other time you step out? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: Heck, it's a Grand Slam and it is in New York. I mean, you couldn't
-- I don't know, I mean, it is a hell of an atmosphere here. It is good and it is bad. It
is great sometimes and it is terrible other times. 

Q. What are the terrible times? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: I mean, with -- it is because it is so hectic, it is great because
it is almost like a ballgame, going to a ballgame, you know, I don't know, I look at this
tournament and, you know, because it epitomizes New York and a ball game; you hang out;
you can heckle a little bit and, you know, people all over the place running into you, and
you running into people; people yelling at you and stuff. It is good and bad because you
know when you get that kind of crowd on your side it is great. You know, and it can help
pull you through some matches. But after a two week tournament, you know, I am ready to go
home, I mean, I remember last year by the end of the tournament, I mean, heck, I was
riding around in cars; I was getting car sick. I was just so tired of the stop and go
traffic. After a while, if you don't live here, week, two weeks, it is time to go home. 

Q. Talk about any solid part of your game that you feel is working best for you right
now; makes you feel confident? 

MaliVAI MASHINGTON: Oh. I don't know. I mean, heck everyday is different. Some day my
serve might be on. Today it was -- my serve was on; especially I think in the last couple
of sets I don't know how many aces I had, but I think it was up there. It really pulled me
through tonight. That was the difference. So we will see what is on the next day. Great. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT