WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 25, 1999
Andrew Coltart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Let me take you back to Sunday. When did you discover you were in the team?

ANDREW COLTART: Well, by the time I had handed in my card, I could see what Robert
(Karlsson) had scored, and I knew from what he did I couldn't get into top 10 or 11. I did
actually believe that 11th, given the way I had been playing or anybody in 11th, would
have been picked. So, you know, I thought it was a toss up between Bernhard Laner and
Robert. I was chupped. I had given it my best and went after it and managed to come up
with the goods when I was asked. I just fell short at the final hurdle. It had been a long
graft, and to fall just short was tough, but I knew I was heading in the right direction.
I found out I had been picked five minutes before I boarded the flight from Munich to
Heathrow. Richard Boxall was on the phone home, and whoever he spoke to was watching the
television and he said he saw pictures of Andrew Coltart and Jesper Parnevik. I just
thought: This is awesome, and I just can't wait to get going.

Q. I suppose you must feel some sympathy for Richard and Bernhard?

ANDREW COLTART: Yes, of course, I do. I mean, I really do. I probably feel more for
Robert. Bernhard, I'm sure will admit he hasn't played the way he's capable of playing,
and he always knew it was going to be a bit of a toss up. Robert came strong at the end,
and played really good golf and had an equal claim to be picked. I phoned Mark James when
I got back home, but he didn't get back until late and he knew I'd rang. He called me and
I said: Thanks very much, I think you've made the right decision, and I'll give my all and
do everything you require of me.

Q. You probably have a lot to live up to now, as people might say you are an unexpected
choice?

ANDREW COLTART: Well, yes, there is pressure on me, but I believe I was playing really
well and had a really good chance of qualifying. Like Mark said, I have played more
consistently than the other guys for a longer period of time. I think maybe that was fair
enough to stake a claim to it. It's a lot to live up to, but isn't it nice that somebody
thinks you are more capable than Bernhard Langer right at this minute? It's a tremendous
boost to me.

Q. You've played here before, haven't you?

ANDREW COLTART: I played twice in the NEC World Series due to my Australian PGA wins in
1994 and 1997. I loved it. The first year I didn't do great, but I played better late
time. The first time was an eye-opener as it was my first trip to the States. I can't even
begin to imagine how Jose Maria Olazabal shot 61 here. I know I will shoot 61 shots at
some stage, but probably a long way from the 18th green.

Q. Will you try for Brookline?

ANDREW COLTART: No, I don't see any point, really. We will be there from Monday and you
hang about so long playing four days before the thing kicks off. Normally, when you go to
a major, you give yourself one or two practice rounds. There is no need for me to do more
than that. Familiarity breeds contempt. I want to stay fresh.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT