U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mary Joe, your first comment on the match, just right after the match? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I was a bit disappointed. I didn't play very well today. I didn't
feel I was timing the ball particularly well. She played very well, doesn't make too many
mistakes and it was just a weird match. I never really felt in the match. I was mistiming
a lot of forehands and I wasn't getting the breaks. I needed points to get up in the
second set and I didn't capitalize on them. 

Q. Were -- do you think you were focused enough on this match or do you think there was
some problem with concentration? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Oh, no, I was focusing and I was concentrating, but, just one of
those days where you don't hit the ball as well as you'd like. I've been hitting the ball
pretty well throughout and it was a little windy and I think I just didn't adjust well to
the timing. 

Q. You don't really look very sad. 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I am, I'm disappointed because I was hitting the ball well and got
through a tough one in my second match and that gave my a bit of confidence. And so to
come out and not play particularly well today, it is a bit discouraging. 

Q. Just in the context of the year, I mean that the last Grand Slam how do you feel -- 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I've had a rough year, healthwise, it's been up and down and I
haven't really played too much. So, it's been tough. I feel, physically, now I'm doing a
lot better and hopefully now it will be a good patch for me where I'll be strong and
healthy for a while and hopefully the more matches I'll play the better form I'll get. 

Q. Does your performance here -- not necessarily today -- basically tell you where you
are? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think I'm still pretty far away. I still need to play a lot of
matches. I'm a little slower than I was before. You lose like that when you don't play a
lot and people start getting more confidence when they play you when they know you're not
on top of your health. And girls go out there and have a little more fate that they can
win instead of being intimidated, and they know they have a chance, so it makes it
tougher. 

Q. Are you physically not as strong as you were before the health problems started? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I'm getting there. I don't think I'm where I was but, I'm feeling
better than I was a few months ago, that's positive. I'm working on it. Every day is
stronger. 

Q. Is that part of the problem, you think you just -- 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: A little bit, I think. I guess I haven't played a lot of matches
and you forget how to play those big points and what to do and which shots to go for and
that all takes a part. 

Q. What is your schedule going to be for the rest -- 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Hopefully, I'll play a lot. Tokyo a week from here and a couple
tournaments in Europe and Virginia Slims in Philadelphia. 

Q. This loss doesn't affect your choice of tournaments? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. 

Q. Mary Joe, with Martina retiring at the end of the year, can you share your thoughts
the first time you saw her play, what you remember? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Wow! I was a very little girl when I first saw her play. I just
remember watching her and Chrissy play in all the finals, basically, and I remember how
strong she was and how she changed the game really. She changed everybody's fitness
program and got everybody doing the weights and getting in shape, and I just remember all
the tournaments she won time after time after time. Sad to see her leave, she was such a
great champion, but I don't think we can expect much more from her. As for me, I'm glad I
won't have to be playing her anymore. I enjoyed playing her so she'll be remembered as
probably the best player ever. 

Q. Do you remember the first time you met her? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't remember. I remember the first tournament I played where
she was at. I don't know if I met her there. It was the Virginia Slims of Florida, Linda
Carter -- I don't know, something like that. I hit with her first time in California in an
exhibition. She asked me to do it and I was pretty excited and I was 13 or 14 years old. 

Q. Did you keep any balls on the court? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I did, a couple. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT