BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2000
Tommy Amaker
Shaheen Holloway
Darius Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH AMAKER: As you can imagine, we're absolutely thrilled to be able to win our first
game in the tournament. There's a lot of talk and speculation about where we stack up
around the country, we need more wins. Our focus has always been to get better, and I'm
just happy and proud of our team for performing after a long layoff, being able to come in
and, I think, play just a total team game. Team effort from beginning to end, and I think
the reason why is certainly all the players, but these two kids sitting up here this
afternoon. . . 
 
Q. Tommy, do you feel like that week off helped you guys get refocused, just get back
to basics?
 
 COACH AMAKER: Well, you know, we had three goals in mind as a coaching staff: One, to
get healthy, to get rested and try to get better. It's a difficult task to try to achieve
all three, but we're really pleased with the effort this afternoon. I think our kids were
excited to play. We knew we played well against Providence the previous time. We knew it
was going to be a different challenge this time because they were a different team. And we
were still a little banged up, worried about Kaukenas and his mobility. But overall, we're
pleased with what the layoff was able to do for us. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you needed this win to lock up a NCAA tournament?
 
 COACH AMAKER: To be honest with you, I've never said that. I think it's been said by
everyone out here and elsewhere that we needed one more win. We felt what we were able to
do over the course of this season, 10 and 6 in the league, 19 wins overall, we felt we had
a solid year. Sometimes you tend to look at just the last week or ten days of the season,
I think when you look at the entire year, these kids have played their hearts out and put
us in this position. So I think we're in. I thought we were in before. I didn't think one
win was going to get us in nor would one loss keep us out. 
 
Q. Tommy, you have quite a bit of interior defense in this game. Was that something you
worked on?
 
 COACH AMAKER: You know, our interior offense or any offense that we get it's usually
generated by Holloway and the way he sets the tone for our team. The way he runs the ball
up the floor and push it. He finds people, looking at his stats, he almost had a triple
double, nine rebounds, nine points and eight assists. He sets the zone. With Darius being
able to stretch the defense sometimes it opens up an opportunity to throw it in the post.
I thought our guys did a nice job of playing off of penetration. Shaheen and Ty did a nice
job of looking to drive, penetrate and find people. 
 
Q. Shaheen, after the first three years you've been here some tough years, does it mean
anything to get to 20 wins?
 
 SHAHEEN HOLLOWAY: It means a lot to me to get 20 wins. Our team did a great job the
whole year, focused on the little things, tried to get better every day at practice and
try to go in the game and play every game like it is our last. We have to give credit to
our young guys for doing that, they helped us out. Darius and Rimas were making shots. The
coaches did a great job trying to get our team together and play everybody. We got ten
guys that could play. Definitely we're happy with 20 wins, but we still got more
basketball to play. 
 
Q. Darius, how do you feel about playing UConn?
 
 DARIUS LANE: We just got to come out, play real hard and intense and play together. I
think we play together, we can beat them. 
 
Q. In the game today you guys had the lead. You were able to allow them to never get
really back into any kind of flow, get back into the game, get it down to single digits.
Talk about the importance of putting these teams away, when you did and how you did.
 
 COACH AMAKER: I think, again, it has a lot to do with the leadership out on the floor
and guys are, I think, are really focused. We talked about at the half, talked about
playing the second half four minutes at a time, you know, not trying to look at it as a
full 20 minutes. Sometimes it can get overwhelming. Four minutes at a time. Every
four-minute timeout, where do we stand here? Are we out playing them or are they out
playing us? We focused on that, I think it helped us. It comes from the leadership out on
the floor, Shaheen recognizes when we need to do certain things; move the ball, take a
shot. He played 38 minutes, and to be honest, I didn't want to take him out because I was
afraid of Providence making a run. We kept him on the floor because we need him to control
our team. 
 
Q. Is UConn tough for you?
 
 COACH AMAKER: I think UConn has been tough for everybody they played. Certainly we
haven't been fortunate to win against them, but I'm not sure many people are looking
forward to playing Connecticut. They're well-balanced, obviously well-coached and they
have some great players. We've battled them throughout the times that we've played them,
but we've never been able to get over the hump. I think that's a credit to their team.
We're looking forward to the game tomorrow. It's an opportunity for us to continue in the
Big East, and, you know, we're here to play in the tournament, not just to play one game. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT