NEW  ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 26, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about your break and how that experience was for you? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: It definitely was -- I don't know if many of you know, but I carried the
torch down there, as well, on the day before the opening ceremony. And it was -- I've told
people that it's probably the best experience of my life. Tops everything I've ever done
on the golf course. The night that I did it, there was a million people in the streets of
Sydney on the route where the torch ran, and I was fortunate enough to be the last runner
on a Thursday night and I got going up the stairs of the town hall in Sydney to light the
cauldron for where the flag stayed overnight. It was just an unbelievable experience. And
the Australian people -- I've never seen the Australian people so excited and so together
and so behind one team. It was just really good to be down there. And then to spend the
first week at the Olympics, I really didn't want to be over here to watch it. I wanted to
be in Australia, at least, and I was fortunate enough to be at the opening ceremony. And I
went to a few other events, and saw an Australian win a gold medal and a couple other
medals. And it so it was something that I'll probably never get to experience again, and
so I'm glad I did it.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I saw the opening ceremony and I saw a couple of the swim night finals,
and went to the track and field on Saturday night and watched the men's and women's 100
meter final. So that was pretty cool. And watched some of the men's basketball and tennis
and beach volleyball. I saw quite a bit.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Grant Hackett the 1,500 meter swimming final.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no. You know, it does, just because -- just to represent
Australia, and also just to be around other top athletes at the top of their sport. I just
really enjoyed watching that. And just to, you know, some of the Australians are under as
much pressure as I've ever seen any athlete be under -- Susie O'Neill as well. Just that
they peak at the right time, they did what was expected of them. And, you know, a lot of
people expect me to play well every week, and I know how hard it is to do that. And for
them to peak at the right them when the Olympics only comes around every four years, and
it is in their backyard. I mean, the Australian media and the Australian public expect it
a lot from our athletes. And all of them are, you know -- I think so far have won 13 gold
medals, and we're setting records every day. You know, I just think it's great to see that
and see the Australians come through, pull through like that with the amount of pressure
that has been put on them down there.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think so. I just like -- just the whole atmosphere down there,
sitting in the crowd and being a spectator for a change and getting to cheer for the
Australians. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: ... for the Solheim Cup -- and, you know, this year, there's the World Cup
in Malaysia. I think, you know, I'll get my chance one day. There's talk about the
Olympics -- golf being an Olympic sport. And the USGA is really pushing for that, and, you
know, there is talk that in the next Olympics golf will be an Olympic sport -- 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: No. I mean, obviously, you know, after last year, I didn't know how I was
ever going to top what I did last year, because last year was the best year I had on TOUR;
and just how you're going to come back the year after, and if you are going to improve or
not have as good a year. So, you know, I didn't have a lot of expectations to play the
golf I did last year, and I ended up topping last year and I had a better year this year
which really amazes me. Winning The Nabisco Championship and the U.S. Open are two very
special tournaments for me, and for me to go and win them, you know, the rest aside --
those were big moments for me and they are the biggest memories I have over the whole year
as far as on the golf course. I started off the year so well, and then to top it off with
the end of that run, winning The Nabisco Championship, that stage of my year was really
just amazing. It's really hard to maintain week after week after week like that. I was
just glad that I kept it going, because I really like that tournament and I like that golf
course and to win that was special. And the U.S. Open, one of the biggest tournaments in
women's golf, and to have one that. And I think that I'm fortunate to have won it in only
my fifth try at it. I've got that under my belt now and I feel like -- with that
tournament, I don't have the pressure on me to say that I haven't won the U.S. Open. But
I've really had a good year. I've played very consistently and I've been in contention a
lot. And that's all that I can ask, just to give myself as many chances as I can and try
and close the deal ... 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT