DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 11, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KARRIE WEBB: 10, I started on 10. I hit 9-iron to about 8 feet; I made that. 15, I had
5-wood into the green and missed -- I hit a branch on the tree up the fairway, and I had
about a 90-yard shot in and made bogey. 1, I hit 3-wood just short of the green, chipped
it to about 7 feet, and made the putt. 2, I missed the green with a 4-iron, left into the
trees, and chipped it through the green, and chipped it on and 2-putted. 7, I hit 9-iron
to about 4 feet. 

Q. Any bad-weather stuff going on Karrie, or pretty much a straight-up day?

KARRIE WEBB: No breeze whatsoever, so just playing the yardage. And depending if you're
downhill, uphill, but pretty much just played it the way you saw it today.

Q. Are you happy, displeased, or what's your state of mind right now?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I haven't shot myself in the foot, but I would like to be a few more
under, a little bit closer to the lead. But I can't do too much about that now. I've just
got to have a good weekend.

Q. Is the course set up tougher today than yesterday?

KARRIE WEBB: About the same as yesterday.

Q. Greens as fast as yesterday, Karrie?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think so. Obviously, we haven't had the sun on them, so they're
probably a little softer. Probably not as many putts getting away from you as there were
yesterday.

Q. How many shots do you feel you left out there today and is that disappointing?

KARRIE WEBB: I don't know. I've been finished for about five minutes, so I haven't
really thought about my round. I don't know, I probably left two or three out there,
probably. But you just can't -- I'm not someone that sits and dwells on it. I can sit and
dwell on it at the end of the week, maybe, but I've still got two rounds to go, and
there's a lot of golf left. And we do this every week. If you knock yourself around after
every round, I wouldn't be sitting in this chair right now.

Q. Are you finding the course tougher than you expected? Is there anything in your game
that you need to work on?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I was here for my Media Day in early June, and I said that I could
sit in the clubhouse at 7-under at the start of the week and feel pretty comfortable about
that. So I don't see -- I don't think I see double figures winning. But you never can
tell. I feel all right about my game. It's nothing in particular. Missed a few putts,
missed a few greens where I shouldn't have. Just a combination. I don't really have a good
flow going out there. I make a birdie, and then I make a bogey.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT