PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 1999
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB: Well, obviously, definitely is going to come down to this week. I have had
a great year so far, so hopefully I can finish it off this week. I feel like I am playing
pretty well. I can't really think about it too much, although it is always going to
probably be on the back of my mind. But I can only help how I play and I can't really help
our Juli plays. More than likely, the way Juli has played this year, she is going to play
well. So I just have to try and -- I mean, I have played well here every year I have been
here. So fortunately I have a lot of good feelings about this golf course and this is
probably one of my favorite weeks of the year, this tournament, just being in Vegas and I
don't know, it is probably -- even with the amount of pressure that you have on you, I
think in other ways it can be one of the most relaxing weeks after the year as well.

Q. Talk about the course; how it is playing?

KARRIE WEBB: It is playing pretty much the same as it has the last few years. The
fairways are a little wet and probably not in quite as good condition as they have been. A
couple of bad patches. I don't know if they have had any rain or not any rain at all -
just looks like it has died off there a little bit on the edges of some of the fairways.
Other than that, greens are in good shape. It is always hard to have greens -- it is a
public golf course, it is really hard to have greens pure without any ball marks. The
greens are as good as I have seen them.

Q. Coming into this year did you even consider -- I mean, did you think what you could
have done or what you have done, did you have any expectations?

KARRIE WEBB: No, not really, actually because I had made a couple changes. I went to
cross-handed putting and I went away from having my caddie line me up when I was putting
and just made a couple of little changes in my swing which really wasn't going to be a
factor. But really just -- I was excited at the start of the year to see how those changes
improved or didn't improve my game. Right from the word go, they did, and just gave me a
lot of confidence. I don't think anyone thinks that they are going to you know, win six
tournaments in a year. I definitely didn't think that, but I felt good about myself at the
start of the year and I won -- well, actually, I won three real early before the end of
March. I just played great all year; really giving myself a lot of chances to win. With
the cross-handed putting I have just -- I mean, it has just made my game so much more
solid, I think because I have putted so well and putting is always going to be a thing
that comes and goes even with the best putters in the world, they don't putt good all the
time. I just had one of those years where I have putted really well and it takes a lot of
pressure off the rest of your game.

Q. Had you ever experimented with cross-handed before?

KARRIE WEBB: No.

Q. Not even messing around with it?

KARRIE WEBB: No, I had never really even thought about it. I say that this tournament
last year I played with Juli in the first round, first nine holes I think I hit it
(inaudible) every time. She was 3- or 4-under and I was even or 1-over or something. I was
like -- I was standing on the 9th green thinking: Maybe I should putt cross-handed, but it
still felt really bad, like I stood on the 9th green and seriously putted cross-handed, I
said that feels so bad, I could never putt cross-handed. But at the end of the tournament
on Monday I went to Carlsbad to Titleist and worked with Scotty for half a day and in the
middle of the test, I just started putting cross-handed without him knowing. He goes: That
is better, what did you do then? I said: I putted cross-handed. After all the tests we
figured out that putting cross-handed was not necessarily a bad thing; it could only help
me. So I thought I would give it a shot.

Q. Vare Trophy race and (inaudible) --

KARRIE WEBB: I haven't actually even looked at, you know, what it would take to win or
lose even Player-of-the-Year. I don't really want to know because I don't know, that is --
that is too much pressure out there because if Juli looks like she is going to win and I
have to like finish in a certain position, I'd just rather not know and play like I have
to win the golf tournament. But Vare Trophy, obviously I want to have a good week just so
I can set a low as a scoring average as I possibly can.

Q. It could be a record?

KARRIE WEBB: Right. It could be a record that, say, in a few years, it could get broken
next year. But it could be a scoring average for me that I might never touch again. I
might -- though I might break my own record. But I definitely want to try and play well
just to -- obviously set a good record and see how long it lasts.

Q. We make a lot of the Player-of-the-Year, but I have always heard the Vare Trophy
described as players' true gauge of the season. Do you agree with that?

KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no. Player-of-the-Year is definitely the most prestigious award
and the money title actually, there is no trophy or award for that, but as far as the
public view, they look at who finished No. 1 on the money list. But to me, that isn't, you
know, obviously as important as winning Player-of-the-Year or Vare Trophy and Vare Trophy
is an award that I think -- I mean, you know, Juli and I are head-to-head for
Player-of-the-Year honors and Juli has had a great year, but our scoring averages I think
are about a half a shot different in over -- that is quite a bit over a period of a year.
To me, that just shows who has actually played the most consistently. Who has shot the
lowest rounds and come up with the best scoring average. Pretty much every year the person
who wins Player-of-the-Year if they -- sorry, Vare Trophy, if they don't win
Player-of-the-Year they are pretty close.

Q. Do you crunch numbers on your laptop?

KARRIE WEBB: No, my coach does. Cal does, but I don't. I have a look at the end of the
day or the end of the week to see how many greens I hit and how many up-and-downs and how
many putts, but never -- when I was home in Australia a couple of weeks ago, I put a new
driver in my bag in the middle of the year. I just wanted to see as far as my accuracy off
the tee, if it had improved because I felt that it had and I just -- that was the only
time I really look at the percentages and stuff like that.

Q. Do you have time to enjoy what you have accomplished this year? Do you have time to
sit back and --

KARRIE WEBB: I definitely think I have enjoyed it. Obviously it is the best golf I have
played in my whole life in a period of one year. But as the year goes on, I mean, it is
such a busy year and it is probably the only time that you really sit back and reflect on
it is when you actually finish for the year and you take a few weeks off. But I definitely
have enjoyed it. I can't say that, you know - there is no way you can't enjoy it; that is
what I am out here to do is to put myself into contention. I have done that, you know,
numerous amount of times this year which is always a good feeling. That is the feeling I
love the most is to have a chance to win and to hit the shots that I need to hit and if I
don't pull them off, it is just not meant to be. I will still work as hard as I did this
-- if I win next week, I will still work hard and if I don't pull it off the next week,
then it just wasn't meant to be and I will work just as hard the next week.

Q. Can you highlight winning the du Maurier --

KARRIE WEBB: I think it was a bit of a surprise win, but once I got myself into
contention, that is where I wanted to be and I always feel more comfortable being in
contention than trying to put myself there. Especially in the majors, even though I try to
go in there and treat it as another tournament, you know, you see some people getting, you
know, three, four, five shots ahead of you, you are trying to make up shots in a major and
it is pretty hard. But after Friday, I have said I didn't -- I was just trying to have a
good weekend because my mom was there and I just wanted to -- I let her see me play a
couple of decent rounds and I threw in a 66 on Sunday -- Saturday. Then all of a sudden I
am in contention, I am only five shots out of the lead and in the second last group. So
right there, that just put me in a more -- just a more positive frame of mind because I
had just knew I had a shot to win. I still had to play great golf, but I knew I had a
chance and, you know, just went out and did it. It was a good feeling.

Q. Was that a big burden you were carrying going into that or --

KARRIE WEBB: It wasn't really a big burden. I think the more and more I had to talk
about it, the more it bugged me that people were, I feel, being too hard on me because
really I am ending my fourth year and at Dinah Shore this year, I just won in Phoenix the
week before, so I had won three times already and they were like: This must be the best
you felt going into a major; what do you think your chances are and you haven't won a
major and wouldn't this be great to win your first major here. And I was like, well, I
have only played 12 majors; this is my 13th major I have ever played. Now I have played 16
majors. So it is not like I have had a lot of opportunities. I think I would have felt
more pressure if I had been on Tour, you know, since 1996 and I am heading into my -- I am
30 years old, been out there for, you know, eight, nine years and haven't won a major and
have won as many other tournaments then maybe I would be starting to feel like the media
is right, you know, why can't do I this. But, to me, it definitely still is a learning
process, because I just have to get used to the fact that there is more bogeys in majors
and to just be a little bit more patient and not so hard on myself.

Q. When you said that you weren't keeping track of the standings for the
Player-of-the-Year and Vare Trophy, how are you approaching this week?

KARRIE WEBB: I think just the same as it is every week. Trying to get my game into good
shape. When you have three weeks off sometimes you are a little rusty and I practiced with
my coach in Australia when I was home a week after the Tournament of Champions. Then I had
a week off and I came back. Then last week I practiced in just a whole lot of wind down in
Florida and was looking forward to today when there was no wind because yesterday I
practiced out here and it was windy as well. All I really needed was to have a day where
there wasn't any wind and I feel pretty good about my game.

Q. Will you do anything to reward yourself, any celebrating after this week is over?

KARRIE WEBB: I don't know. I have to buy a new boat after Hurricane Irene my boat sank,
so it sort -- I am going to upgrade my boat anyway because that is probably the treat I am
going to treat myself. But, the purchase was probably going to come early next year if
things had gone a little bit better, but it is probably going to be a little quicker
because I don't have a boat right now.

Q. Your house didn't get damaged; did it?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I got some water on my wood floors which I have to replace.

Q. You live on a canal?

KARRIE WEBB: On the main intercoastal down there.

Q. You just built that last year?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, moved in just over a year ago.

Q. Were you there or were you in Australia?

KARRIE WEBB: I was at the Tournament of Champions. Then I had to go to Australia --
well, I didn't have to, but scheduled to go to Australia and everyone is like: It is fine,
you don't have to come back, we will handle it. It is still like it happened yesterday,
nothing really has been done, but insurance takes so long to make claims and stuff.

Q. You have it around your house.... 

KARRIE WEBB: I have a lift right off my sea wall. I have had so much trouble with the
boat anyway because I think I have used it probably, I don't know, six times for the whole
year. Every time I come home it is broken.

Q. A hole in the water you pure money into.

KARRIE WEBB: Oh, I just had the worst luck with it. I was sort of happy that it sank.
But it was like -- it wouldn't go away because it flew off my lift because I had the plugs
out of it so that the rain would have drained through, and it sank straightaway. I think
the waves were actually coming up underneath it and rocking it, then a big gust of wind
blew it off. And it sank, we assumed it sank because it was found floating up in the
intercoastal tied to someone's dock and I was like there is no way it could float because
the plugs are out of it. What had happened, it is really shallow where I am at low tide,
so it sank and at low tide, it was low enough that the water drained out of the plugs and
the sand clogged the hole and it floated again. So not only did it sink, then it like
banged into everyone's dock all the way up the intercoastal. It is all banged up.

Q. What kind of boat?

KARRIE WEBB: It was a Sea-Do, just one of those jet boats, Sea-Do jet boats. But I am
going to purchase a fishing boat.

Q. What was the boat's name?

KARRIE WEBB: No, didn't have a name.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT