GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 1996
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about the match.
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Today I think I didn't serve well and I have to serve well if I am
going to win against Michael, I think. I tried to play aggressive. I have to be on the top
of the points all the time and I tried that and in the beginning I missed a lot of shots
and -- but I mean, that is the way I have to play to beat Michael and it is better to go
for it, you know, and miss it and lose anyway, so I tried to go. In the second set I think
I played a really good set. I was stepping in the court a little bit more; played a little
bit faster and was too bad I got a bad fault and in the third because I think in the last
two sets I think I played good. I think I played pretty good in the third too. I just was
a little bit unlucky losing my serve a couple of times. I had game points and I had
30-Love when I lost the first game, so I am happy with the way I played the last two sets,
I think. Michael played really well. He ran a lot of balls back. I think today he was too
good. 
 
Q. What do you see about him that is different now then maybe the first time you have
played him just maybe a year ago or something?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't see a big difference, actually. He is always a very tough
player and when I go out on the court with him I have to play well, I have to play
aggressive, try to play my game and today too bad I didn't serve too well because I broke
him, you know, a lot of -- I think three times or something. But he is on a roll. He is
winning a lot of matches. He is confident and he is playing good when he needs it, I mean,
Michael has been one of the best players in the world for a long time, so he works hard
and he is a very good player. 
 
Q. Would you say your timing was off in that first set? It looked like you were missing
easy -- was it your timing?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: A little bit. Like I said, I tried to go out on the court and play
aggressive, but I didn't play aggressive enough in the -- in the beginning of the points,
I didn't put first serves in. I didn't, you know, hit the deep returns, so I could start
to play my aggressive game. I went to far back in the court and Michael started to move me
around; then it is hard to play aggressive because I was hitting, you know, from too far
back, on the court and then I start missing, and I changed that in the second set and when
I -- then I started to play well. 
 
Q. Do you see him as a player that could capture the No. 1 ranking?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I think so. I mean, he is working really hard and he is improving
his serve a lot. I think he can do it, yeah. 
 
Q. How about yourself eventually?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't know about that. I don't think about it too much. I think it is
the big step to talk about being No. 1. I think you have to be a top player for a while to
be consistent top player for a while before you can start thinking about that. I still
have to learn a lot of things before I am even going to start to think that. I mean, I am
happy with the way I play right now and hopefully I can, you know, play good tennis here
and play a good U.S. Open. 
 
Q. Did you maintain your concentration evenly throughout this match or looking at the
scores of the set, did that have mostly to do with missing particular shots, I guess. Was
your concentration even?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I would say it was. I was really focused on this match and I beat
him three times before, so I know I had a good chance. Obviously I was in very good shape,
I played really good yesterday and the day before, so was confident going in and, you
know, I think I did my best, but today I was not maybe playing that well as I have to do
against Michael and he played well. 
 
Q. You mentioned now you are confident as you ever have been at this point. Despite
tonight, are you going to be able to maintain that to defend your title at Indianapolis?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I think I am happy the way I played this week and hopefully, like
I say, I am hoping I can play good tennis next week and in Toronto I have a lot of matches
in your body when you go into the U.S. Open. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT