U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I am very happy that I won. Of course, when you play a long match you
are a little bit tired in your body, but I feel pretty good. 
 
Q. Ready to go another five?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Oh, yeah. It is very good feeling to have after you win five-setter it
is more fun, I mean, afterwards to win a very close match then it is to win easy match, I
think. I was a little bit nervous today. I put a little pressure on myself because I have
been playing very well for a long time right now and, I really wanted to do well in the
Slams and I was a little bit nervous, but Rios was also playing very well, I think. I
should have won a little bit easier in the fifth because I have so many chances and
matchpoints and breakpoints, but I am very happy that I won. 
 
Q. Did you ever play him in the juniors at any point, I know you are older than. . . 
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I never played him. But I have seen him play a lot. I think he can
be very good player. He played very fast and today he did some very good shots. I was not
serving that good, I think in the match today and that was the key, I think because I
break him a lot, but I couldn't serve like I have been doing for a long time, but that is
maybe because I was a little bit tight and nervous. 
 
Q. You said you really didn't feel -- you are playing well and you put some pressure on
yourself. Do you feel you haven't lived up to expectations as of late, this summer?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I had a very good year so far and I haven't been doing that well in the
Slams, so when you know that you are playing very well, I really want to do well in the
Slams this year, maybe I put a little bit too much pressure on myself because I know it is
a lot of good players; you really have to be playing very well and to play relaxed to win
every match. It feels good to me to be able to win because I was not playing my best,
maybe, but I played, I mean, been able to win anyway. It is good. 
 
Q. What was going through your mind when Rios had that matchpoint in the tiebreak after
you had four before that? 
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I mean, when you play a tiebreaker and in the fifth set, it could
go either way. I have so much chances, so I think this was really my match. I just tried
to sit just one point, so I did a good forehand down the line. 
 
Q. Ever played a fifth set tiebreaker before?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, never. 
 
Q. What do you think of that in a Grand Slam?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I like it very much. 
 
Q. You like it?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yes. Today I like it. I don't know, I mean, I think -- always tiebreak
here? 
 
Q. Not always.
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: We always play tiebreaker at ATP tournaments when you are in the third
set, so we are pretty used to that. I play a lot of 7-6 in the third matches. It is not
that big of a difference. 
 
Q. You are in the top 10 now. Do you think Marcelo could be in the top 10 the way he
plays some day?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Very hard to say, I think. Like I said, it is very -- a lot of good
players out there and I think he can be very good, but I mean, it is very hard to say if
someone is going to be top 10 or top 50 or whatever, I mean, when you play him, I think
you feel like he is a very good player, but also a lot of other guys who are good players
too, then everybody will be top 10. It is very hard to say. But I think he can be a very
good player and he is a very good player. 
 
Q. What does it mean to you to be No. 1 in Sweden after so many great Swedish
champions?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I don't think about that that much, actually. Of course, it is a
lot of fun to be ranked in the top 10. For me, it doesn't matter if it is eight Swedes
before me. I am just happy if the other Swedes are doing well too. 
 
Q. Were you doubting yourself at any point tonight?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: In the fifth set I was up all the time and I have so many chances. I
just thought I have to win because I had breakpoints all the time. I have matchpoints. I
had double break and I have a lot of chances, so. . . But like I said, I was nervous, but
I am very happy to get through. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT