COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 5, 1995
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Michael how was your level of play this time compared to Frankfurt? You looked very
tired; not playing your own game.
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I think that compared to Frankfurt I don't think I played as well
today. To be honest with you, I thought that Frankfurt I was playing pretty good tennis,
and, you know, pretty solid tennis overall, otherwise pretty much I wouldn't be able to
get to the finals there. So, yeah, I would definitely say my play in Frankfurt was a bit
better. 
 
Q. Were you tired today?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: I didn't feel tired. No, I didn't feel too tired. 
 
Q. What went wrong, according to you?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I think that part of it may be I didn't give myself quite enough
time to get used to the court. I think the court is a little bit quicker than what I have
been playing on, so I think that that could be one reason. I think another reason is that
I think Jacco served pretty big today, but other than that, I had my opportunities to win
today's match. I had a few set points in the first set and had a couple of breakpoints in
the second set, so, you know, wasn't able to capitalize on those opportunities, so ....
yeah.... 
 
Q. Michael, what were you doing last weekend? Did you watch the Davis Cup final at all?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I watched a little bit at home and then watched the rest of it
here, so -- pretty much..... 
 
Q. Michael, Thomas Muster criticized the kind of surface. Do you think that it is
pretty fast?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: Well, Thomas, I think, can't expect to be playing on a slower surface
here as far as a clay court, for example. You know, I mean, the only times that clay
courts are ever put indoors are when they play Davis Cup, like in Moscow when the U.S.
played Australia in '90, so I don't think Thomas can expect a clay court to be laid down
here. As far as a little bit of a slower surface, I think that is quite possible. I think
that the tournament in Frankfurt was a little bit -- well, was medium/fast, and I thought
that it was a good surface for all the players. So this surface, I think that it has
always been quick, so I don't think that it should be a surprise to anybody coming in to
play the Grand Slam Cup. It has always been fast. And, as far as I am concerned, it
probably will stay this way. I am not really complaining about the surface. I have had a
lot of good success here in the past. 
 
Q. Jacco said it was his advantage, the quickness of the court, because you didn't have
much opportunities to hit the ball; you couldn't make any choices; it went one way or the
other; is it correct?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: I think that is true to a point. But like I said, I had opportunities to
do well. I had set point on my serve and missed a pretty easy passing shot and I had a
couple of breaking points to break him in the second set. So overall, it was still a match
that had I won a few key points could have definitely turned things around, but I think a
surface like this will definitely, you know, favor the big serve and volleyers a little
bit more than maybe the players who play from the back just because it gives them a little
bit of advantage on their serve and on their volleys. It gives maybe the baseliners a
little bit less time to run down shots, but that is expected, and that is where, you know,
the players who prefer to play from the back have to step up their game a little bit, so
that is really all it comes down to. It works the same way if you are playing on a slower
surface, maybe it favors the players who play from the back a little bit more, so varies
from week-to-week. 
 
Q. Is this result a bit of a downer for you, or not?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: Not really. Not really. I think that I was able to have a really good
tournament in Frankfurt, and this allows me a little bit more time to get ready for a few
personal things and also prepare for the following year, so obviously I would have like
today have done a lot better here in Munich because I think this is a great tournament; it
is a very well run tournament and I think a tournament that all the players would like to
do well in, but since it has been cut a little bit short for me, I am sure going to be
still going to be very busy at home, so .... yeah... 
 
Q. You went home after Frankfurt and came back?
 
 MICHAEL CHANG: Yes. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT