TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 16, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ATP: Questions for Mark. 
 
Q. Pretty straightforward effort. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I was extremely happy the way I played today. I hit the ball
rather clean on my groundstrokes. Like I said, you know, I think my serve wasn't there a
hundred percent, but groundstrokes have gotten better and better as my matches have
progressed.  
 
Q. I didn't see the match yesterday that you played because it was not on the monitors.
Was your knee taped up yesterday, as well?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. 
 
Q. Why today?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It wasn't the knee. It's the calf muscle, the back (indicating).  
 
Q. Was it troubling you during the match?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I ended up feeling something at the end of the match yesterday. You
know, when you're warmed up in a match, you just go through it, keep going. Once you
finish, you cool down, it gets a little stiff. Yeah, just before the match I taped it up.
It was a little stiff after last night. Felt good, though, during the match. 
 
Q. If the serve was the downer, what was the most positive part of your game today that
satisfied you the most?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: My all-around game. My groundstrokes were a lot better today. I
felt great off my groundstrokes. You know, I was more patient today. When I did come to
the net, I was happy with what I did. It was good. 
 
Q. How do you explain that so many Australian players are in the top now?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't know about anyone else. For myself, I'm just training hard,
playing some good tennis, just enjoying myself. 
 
Q. Coincidence?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: What everyone else does, it's up to them, I'm sure. Lleyton is
playing some good tennis at the moment. He's had an incredible start of the year. Like I
said, what everyone does is their own business. 
 
Q. Do you think this result, winning maybe this tournament, would help you get in the
Davis Cup team?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: If I what?  
 
Q. To get in the Davis Cup team of your country is a tough thing right now. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sure it is a tough thing. 
 
Q. Do you see yourself in there or fighting for that spot?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm playing my tournament at the moment. That's all I'm worried
about. What John Newcombe, Tony Roche do, pick the team, is their own choice. Where are
you from actually?  
 
Q. Switzerland. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: All right.  
 
Q. What about your next match?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Schalken, haven't played him too often. Last time I played him -- I
can't actually remember the last time I played him. I remember I lost to him once before.
He's a tough player. Obviously he's playing some great tennis. He's a very clean hitter of
the ball. Yeah, I'm sure he's full of confidence at the moment, so it's going to be an
extremely tough match. 
 
Q. What do you think about the Davis Cup match against Germany?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm not thinking about that at all. I'm playing a tournament at the
moment. That's what I'm thinking about.  
 
Q. A long time people looked at you as just a good service player. Now you obviously
have improved your all-around game. Do you think people appreciate that enough? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm sure they do. Like I said, the serve is a big part of my game.
It's what I have worked on. I've worked on a lot of other aspects of my game, too. I'm
sure that it has shown and people appreciate that, I hope.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT