WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2000
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JEFF MAGGERT: You know, coming back obviously is a lot of fun. I've been looking
forward to coming back here for a few months now. Obviously it was a great win for me last
year, having played almost five and a half years without being in the winner's circle, it
was nice to get back. Certainly to get back in the fashion that I did with the chip in and
winning a million dollars was something that I didn't really think about doing, but it's
just a great event. I think it's great that Andersen Consulting has picked this event to
sponsor. I really think that over the course of the next 15 or 20 years, I think this is
going to be one of the favorite tournaments that players like to come and play. I think
we've needed a match play event on the Tour for some time. And the caliber of this field
and the tournament I just think has a great future. It's a great honor for me to win the
inaugural championship. And hopefully I can come back and have a run at it this year.

Q. Jeff, why do you like playing match play?

JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it's different. We play week in and week out in a medal play
format, and match play is a totally different event altogether. I think it gives a lot of
players an opportunity to showcase their games, and when it's a one-on-one match, I just
think it's fun golf to watch. It's fun for me as a player. It's a different routine than
what we're used to, and it's a very -- it's a challenge more than anything to try to beat
64 of the best players in the world over the course of six matches, is a very difficult
thing to do, and it's a good challenge and it really tests your game.

Q. How do you feel differently coming in here defending a title than you did last time
you went into a stroke-play event?

JEFF MAGGERT: I don't know, it's been a long time since I defended a title. So I think
this tournament is obviously different. Your mindset is different than a medal play
tournament. I'm just thinking really about my match tomorrow more so than trying to defend
on Sunday. I'm trying to get back to the same kind of rhythm and mindset that I had last
year, and this tournament is five tournaments for five days, from a player's standpoint.
For me there's only one day of the tournament and that's tomorrow, and I have to play well
tomorrow and I have to win. And then I go onto the next day. So it's a long road to get to
Sunday. And to win all of those matches takes a lot of patience, and you really have to --
you play a stroke-play event one day at a time, one stroke at a time, but this format
really makes you focus in on what's in front of you, at least for me for tomorrow. I play
Bob Tway, he's a very good player. And if I don't play well, I'll be flying home tomorrow
night and he'll be playing on Thursday. I have to play well, and get my game in good shape
and see what I can do. 

Q. Do the conditions favor a certain type of player?

JEFF MAGGERT: I think the wet conditions are going to favor some of the longer hitters
this week, but in match play format I think keeping the ball in play, giving yourself an
opportunity to stay in the match I think is also just as important. So I think my game is
suited for this format, and the conditions. I hit the ball very straight. At least I don't
plan on making a lot of bogeys. And I feel like my game is not going to allow myself to
make a lot of mistakes on this golf course. I feel like I have a pretty good advantage
under the conditions.

Q. You mentioned the challenge of beating -- the 64 top players. Do you look at it that
way or is it more all you've got to do is beat six guys?

JEFF MAGGERT: You can look at it that way, yes, but to win six matches in a row, I mean
it's a tough feat to pick out six guys and say all I have to do is beat six guys over the
next five days is -- it's a tough chore, because as we saw last year, all these guys in
the field can play, whether it's Michael Campbell or Tiger Woods, they know how to play
golf, and if you let up for one second they're going to beat you. And you just have to be
on your toes and play really good golf. You've got to have a little bit of luck on your
side with some good breaks, some good bounces along the way, but you can say that in any
tournament. But I think that over six matches you just have to play some really good golf.


Q. Are you concerned about the weather, at all?

JEFF MAGGERT: Not really. I know the forecast is not the greatest. I've heard that it
may rain a little bit tomorrow, but the course is a little wet, but it's obviously in
great shape. The course is -- it's ready to be played. I don't think the weather is going
to hamper -- stop the tournament. I think the course can handle even a little bit more
water. The greens are nice, and the fairways are a little soggy, but I think the
tournament is going to be fine.

Q. You mentioned Tiger and Michael, what do you think about that matchup, in itself?

JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it's just another one of those matches where it's hard to predict a
winner. Michael Campbell is playing some great golf the last couple of months, and
obviously Tiger is playing well, and who knows? I'm not going to try to make a prediction,
there. I know Michael Campbell wants to win just as bad as any of the rest of us, and
certainly he's got a lot of confidence in his game, and Tiger has played well. I'm sure
Tiger was disappointed to have his streak ended, but I'm sure he's looking to start
another one. That will be a fun match to watch.

Q. Did you have fun with your million dollar first place prize last year?

JEFF MAGGERT: Well, a lot of it is still in the bank, hopefully. I have a good
accountant that's keeping track of it. I didn't put a lot of emphasis on the money last
year, and I really, with the year gone by, I still haven't really thought that much about
winning a million dollars in one tournament. It was a big milestone for me to get back in
the winner's circle, and certainly still a year later it's one of the most important
things that I can remember about the win. So hopefully I can do it again this year. And
it's just great to be playing on the Tour right now. The prize money, you know the way
it's gotten and to be able to have the opportunity to win a million dollars in one
tournament is fantastic. I'm looking forward to the next ten years of my career, hopefully
I can win a few of these things. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT