U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Jason Stoltenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So how are you feeling about your game?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: It could have been better. But, you know, it's the first round, so
it's always nice just to get through that one. I was playing a player today that was
pretty tricky; tough to get into a rhythm. I guess I'm through to the next round, which is
the most important thing. 
 
Q. Were the problems mostly from what he was doing or just problems with your observe?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: A bit of both. He's the type of player that you don't know what to
expect. He can hit a lot of winners, make a lot of errors. I was just trying to hang in
there. I was down a second set, he was missing a bit, picked my game up. It was gusty as
well. I was playing on the courts where there's one court next to the other; quite
distracting sometimes. 
 
Q. Was everything in your game working well as you went long? Seemed to get better.
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: I would have liked to have served better. My serve let me down at
times, but it was patchy. I had some good serves when I needed them at times, and I didn't
at other times. I had a lapse in the second set, down two breaks at the start of the
second set. Other than that, I was pretty happy with the way things went. Overall, I
played quite well. You have to to beat a guy like that in straight sets. 
 
Q. After the great performance at Wimbledon, this is another good start to a Grand
Slam. I mean, do you feel that you can go on further to the quarterfinals or anything like
that?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Well, it's a similar situation to Wimbledon. I wasn't -- I hadn't
really done that well at Wimbledon before the third round. Started playing well. Same
here. I will have to do well here to make quarterfinal or go further. Whether it's this
year, I don't know. I'm a long way away from it at this stage. Getting through the first
round, which is quite often the toughest one to get through, once you get on your way, you
relax, play a little better. Hopefully my next match I'll relax a little bit and be able
to play my game a little more. Today I was a little nervous, a little tentative. Hopefully
next round I can get out a little more, taking one at a time. Not looking past my next
one. 
 
Q. Did it get sort of easier that last set?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: I think maybe he may have been feeling the heat a little bit, I'm
not sure. He did seem -- I think the second set, being down two breaks, I came back and
won that set. That sort of deflated him a little bit. He started to hit out and make a lot
of mistakes. With me winning that second set, my game picked up as well. The third set
wasn't as hard of work as the first two sets, obviously. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT