GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 23, 2000
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: Well, it started off a little rough, and I made a nice couple of par
putts on the first two holes. And I putted well all day. That was the savior of my game.
And I didn't give myself enough opportunities as I was hoping I would today, but I made
some good putts. And I kind of hung in there and had a chance right through the middle of
the back 9, beginning of the back 9, which I birdied 10 and 11, and he bogeyed 13. And I
had my opportunities there on 14, 15, and 16, with wedges to all three of those pins, and
that was pretty much the ballgame, right there. If I had to do it over again, I'd walk
back to 14 and start over and hit that wedge again. They weren't all that difficult. You
just have to get them close to the pins out here. 
 
Q. That was a nice $100,000 putt on 18.
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: Thank you. I didn't look at the board all day. I knew it was Hal and I. I
didn't really think about what was second until the 17th hole when I plugged it in the
bunker, and I thought, "Crap, what am I doing now? How much am I spending here?"
That was the only bunker I hit it in all week, and it plugged. I hit a couple off the tee,
but that was the only green-side bunker I hit for 72 holes, and I had a buried lie. Go
figure. I played kind of the same every day. I missed too many fairways to really get
something going low. And didn't get the ball close enough with my wedges. I think it's
probably -- I didn't know a lot about the greens. I hadn't played here in quite a few
years. I didn't know how the slopes were going to react. And it's probably from some
inexperience, I think, to know what kind of shot to hit into some of these pins. 
 
Q. On your shot at 15, the little chip, would you use the same club again?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: I used the same club I used in the fairway. I think I was disgusted with
the fairway shot and lost my concentration. That's not where you want to be. Chipping for
birdie there. I had a wonderful punch out of the trees there, and I had a perfect distance
for that club. And I was influenced with it by Hal's shot. He hit a nice, high, hot shot.
They were yelling like I thought Hal's was really close. It influenced the way I hit my
shot. I didn't hit it hard enough. Those were the turning point holes: 14, 15, and 16,
right through there. I had wedges and had a wonderful angle at the pin on 16, and I didn't
-- I had downhill putts on all of those. You had to have uphill shots, and get that uphill
birdie chance. I didn't give myself the opportunities. 
 
Q. Was the reason you decided to play here this year was because you missed a bunch of
tournaments with your injury?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: Yes, the reason I played here is because I haven't played good at Hilton
Head the last couple of years. I wanted to take a couple of weeks off and rest my elbow. I
didn't have any problems all week. I put Greensboro back on the calendar. I'll be coming
back next year. I enjoyed the week, and I enjoyed the golf course. I might have learned
some things about the greens, and who knows. 
 
Q. I think it's your 7th second-place finish since you won in '94.
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: Boy, you are really fast with the stats. I know, I've thought about that.
And I'd like to win a tournament, absolutely. And you go out there three strokes back on a
Sunday, you know you have an opportunity to do something today; you've got to shoot a good
score. I was thinking 66 all day that I have to shoot. And Hal didn't play his best. The
pins were difficult; the greens were firm. Low score is probably Calcavecchia. He must
have burned it up. Played early in the day, and the greens were softer. He got it going,
it looks like. I knew I had an opportunity. Hal didn't hit that good yesterday it sounded
like in the paper. I felt like I had an opportunity to win today if I could have shot a
good, low score. And it didn't work out. I didn't drive the ball good enough. First couple
of holes I was in trouble, and I got off to a good start. 
 
Q. How about after you got close, did you have a feeling that it was happening then?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: Yeah, at 14 I thought after he bogeyed 13, that was -- it's the poorest
bogey he's made in a long time with a wedge into that green. I felt like 14, here we go.
If I can get a good shot and make a birdie and get this thing tied, that was it. And he
ended up just kind of increasing the gap after that. That was definitely the big turn: 14,
15. 
 
Q. It's interesting to note that the winner of the tournament shoots par yesterday,
1-under par today, you shoot 1-under par today and you're No. 1 and No. 2. The only really
low score, low round today was Calcavecchia at 65. Did it play that much more difficult
today?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: When you've got firm greens on Sunday, you've got the pins in the corner,
yes. But obviously it played difficult, because the guys couldn't get the ball close to
the hole. You've got to have the perfect yardage and a great shot to get it close, and
you've got to make the putt. I didn't see really anybody knock any shots one foot or two
foot for gimmees all week. Good shots would end up four or five feet, but it would give
you a tickler or a little breaker. These greens are difficult. They have a lot of slope,
and they've firmed up quite a bit throughout the week. And that's the typical PGA TOUR
Sunday. That's what happens every Sunday. The greens get firm, and the pins are in the
corner. You have to be patient and shoot to the middle. If you're in the back of the pack,
you try to go for more, but it's pretty typical. 
 
Q. And hopefully end up like you did on 18?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: You hope to get in position there. The saving grace is I did birdie the
last hole every day, four straight days in a row. So that's kind of a neat thing. And
birdied 18 three times. That's pretty good stuff.  
 
Q. How difficult was the shot from the trees on 13?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: That wasn't a tough shot. That wasn't a hard shot at all. I was
fortunate. The few bad drives I wound up with relatively easy punchouts. The one on 15 was
probably harder. I had a clear shot right for the fairway. I wish I hit the 7-iron a
little harder, would rather have a sand wedge than a 9-iron. That wasn't as difficult as
the crowd made it sound. 
 
Q. Hal didn't play his best game today. How tough is it for (inaudible.)
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: He didn't lose the lead. He was always in the lead by a stroke. He never
lost the lead. He's a veteran. He's been there time and time again. And this isn't his
first rodeo; he knows what to do. He knows to hit the greens and put the pressure on the
other guy. And that's exactly what he did. 
 
Q. When you almost won the match play last year -- I know it's very hard to win out
here, but were you expecting more of yourself?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: You know, every time you have a good tournament, you expect to keep on
playing good. And that's really not my nature. I have a good tournament, and then I quit
playing for a couple of weeks and get hungry and go practice and come back out and go
again. I'm not a streak player. I just kind of pick my shots and jump in and jump out.
I've got no illusions for Houston next week. I have no idea what's going to happen. When
I'm hitting it good and putting it good, I can go and miss the cut by four, I have no
idea. I don't have any -- a lot of guys play good for a month or two months out here. It's
not really my style. 
 
Q. Where do you look at Hal now in the pecking order of players?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: I think he's a definite dominant, top five player in the world, he's
right there with the best players in the world. And beating Tiger at TPC after that great
eagle Tiger made on 16, that shows a lot of guts and courage. We all know Hal has plenty
of that. And he shows it time and time again. I respect Hal quite a bit.  
 
Q. Is he the best player in the world on U.S. open style courses at the moment?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: Oh, I don't know about that. I think everybody -- there's a couple of
best players in the world. Tiger is, I think, clearly ahead of everybody else. When his
game is on, he's far better than everybody else. But the next tier guys are definitely
competitive and when they get close to him, they can definitely compete with him. 
 
Q. Tiger is even better on these sort of courses?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: When he's on his game, he's untouchable, I think. 
 
Q. 15 was a pitching wedge or sand wedge?
 
 ANDREW MAGEE: 15 was a pitching wedge.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT