AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 6, 1999
Rick Helling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Rick, do you feel extra pressure now because your team lost Game 1?

RICK HELLING: Not really. You know, I don't think really anybody expected us to win
this series anyway. To me, all the pressure's on the Yankees. They won the first game.
Obviously it would be nice if we won the second game, went back home with a split. But as
far as actual pressure, no, not at all. I mean, to me, we've been the underdog. We've been
the underdog all year. Everyone talked about us matching up with the Yankees, if we can
get back here and if we can finally beat them. We haven't yet. So as far as extra
pressure, not at all. Nobody expects us to win, so there's not really pressure on you when
you're not expected to win. It's when you're expected to win there's pressure.

Q. Your curve ball has been at times up and down this year. Can you give me an update
on exactly where you feel with its status, and if you don't have it, can you still be
competitive in this situation?

RICK HELLING: Well, that's, I mean that's a game-to-game thing with me. Last game
obviously wasn't as good as the game before. On the side, I thought I felt like I threw it
fine. I made some adjustments. That, for me, is a feel pitch, pretty much is for any
pitcher. I have confidence in it. If it's not working, I'll use my other pitches. You make
the best with what you have that night. You obviously just throw a couple in the first
inning, say it's not working and then throw it away. You have to keep throwing it, make
the hitter know you're going to throw it. Obviously if it's working, it's going to make
your job easier. The more pitches you have in your repertoire, the easier it is to pitch.
If I go out there and it's not how I want it to be, I'll just make do with what I have and
I'll do what I can to try to get them out with my other pitches.

Q. Does the way your team's offense has been struggling get into your thinking at all,
about not wanting to give up runs early or anything like that?

RICK HELLING: Well, I think, no. I mean our offense, I have complete faith in our
offense. You look at what we've done over the last two years, offensively, we're one of
the best offensive teams in all of baseball. There's no question about that. You get to
the post-season and obviously everything's magnified, especially with the series we played
against the Yankees last year and so far the game this year, we haven't scored many runs.
Our offense is capable of scoring ten runs a game if we start swinging the bats the way we
can. The main thing I think everybody will tell you if you put yourself in position to
have success, eventually it's going to happen. Last night, El Duque threw a great game. We
had chances early to score runs and we just couldn't get that big hit. Our team has
traditionally gotten that big hit when we needed it and eventually it's going to happen. I
have a ton of faith in our offense. It doesn't put pressure on me. I'm trying to throw
zeros on the board anyway. What the offense does, I don't worry about what they do, more
times than not they're going to score runs for us.

Q. What do you remember from last year's start in the post-season, and what do you
learn from that with regards to what went right and wrong?

RICK HELLING: Main thing is we lost. That's the one thing I remember. I felt like I
threw the ball pretty well, but we came out on the losing end. When you're in the
playoffs, that's the main thing -- to win. You know, I think I went six innings, threw the
ball fairly well, gave the team a chance to win, but it was just like, you know, it has
been so far in all these games against the Yankees, we got outpitched a little bit, didn't
score enough runs to win. That's what it's all about. If we only score one run, last year
the game I pitched was the only run we scored. I can only afford to give up zero. If we
score eight, I can give up seven and still win. It doesn't matter. It's all -- playoffs is
all about wins and losses to. To me, I don't care about my personal stats, I haven't
really all year. As long as we win, that's all that matters. Hopefully tomorrow I can
throw a good game and give the team a chance to win and we can score enough runs to win.
That's what it's all about.

Q. It would seem the key for you tomorrow, especially their left-handed hitters, is to
keep the ball in the ballpark. Is that how you see it?

RICK HELLING: I wouldn't necessarily say that's the key. You know, the key is to limit
them as much as possible. If I give up a solo home run here or there and we've already
scored five or six, it's not going to kill us. If it's a close ball game, a tie ball game
and I give up a two or three-run shot, obviously that puts you in a hole. So you obviously
don't ever want to give up home runs, but in certain situations they're less meaningful
than in others. So I wouldn't necessarily say that's the key to the game. But they
definitely have a dangerous line-up, no question about it. You have to make good pitches
to get them out. Obviously giving up a single is better than giving up a home run at any
time. But I wouldn't say that's the key to the game. Each game is its own individual
entity, just per se, and depending on how the game's going, you know, we may be ahead
seven or eight to nothing early or it could be a 0-0 game in the 8th inning. That's going
to dictate the way I pitch and the way the rest of the team plays.

Q. You mentioned before how the team scores a lot of runs. Are you afraid the team
might be a little bit psyched out or spooked by the Yankees?

RICK HELLING: I don't think so. I mean we have -- you look up and down our line-up,
it's a bunch of veteran players. It's not like we're sending out eight or nine rookies
there. They've all been around for a long time, they know how to play the game. You get to
the playoffs and, you know, the old cliche is it's all about pitching and defense in the
playoffs. You know it's going to be tough to score runs. You're facing the other team's
best pitchers at all times. And for whatever reason, we just haven't scored many runs. You
have to give the Yankees' pitchers credit. There's no question they have a great pitching
staff over there. I think our offense feels we've had our chances, we just haven't had
that big hit. We've done that all year, when we've needed a big hit we've been able to get
it. So far this year, just yesterday I guess in the playoffs, we didn't get that big hit.
Like I said earlier, you give yourself enough chances, eventually it's going to happen. We
definitely had chances to score yesterday. El Duque threw a great game; but it's not like
he cruised the first few innings. There's base runners, we had opportunities to score some
runs. Bases loaded in the first inning, a big hit right there, would have been a totally
different ball game. Their pitchers do a good job of shutting us down when we need that
big hit. Eventually, like I said, if we keep giving ourselves a chance, one of these times
we'll get that big hit and maybe jump out to the early lead.

Q. A lot of people have said, more local media than anybody, the Yankees are so strong
and can almost turn it on for post-season play. Do you feel like there's any truth to that
statement; that the Yankees are built for this kind of thing and that maybe Texas needs to
get a jump start and once you get a game, things can turn around?

RICK HELLING: I think playoff experience definitely helps. The Yankees are there it
seems like year in and year out. That helps. We've been there a lot the last two years. We
have playoff experience as well, obviously not as solid as the Yankees tradition. As far
as turning it on and off, if the Yankees are able to do that, they're pretty impressive.
To me, I don't think you can say we're playing a pretty good team now, we need to turn it
up. We're in the playoffs, we can turn it on well and start playing well. If they can do
that, they found something I don't think anybody else knows about. I think all Major
League Baseball players are out there playing hard every day. You're going to have days
when you don't play well and days when you do. The Yankees have a definite playoff
experience factor that I think helps. I think the more you're there, the easier it is to
deal with the pressure, the media, whatever it may be. But as far as turning it on and
off, I don't think that's possible. I know as far as our team goes, we play hard every
day, and you try to step it up in bigger games and bigger situations and you know it's
more intense and each mistake is probably more costly, but if it was that easy to do, you
would do it all the time.

Q. Rick, Bernie Williams has been swinging a hot bat leading into this series, he did a
great job last night. What do you think he does for the line-up and can you talk about
facing him tomorrow night?

RICK HELLING: Obviously Bernie led the League in hitting last year. He was, I don't
know, top five again this year. He's fast. He's got power. He's hard to strike out. He's
hard to double -- hit into a double-play. He's a great guy to have in the middle of the
line-up for them. You know, like I said, he's swinging a hot bat right now. In the
playoffs, the way I look at it is everybody's swinging a hot bat. You can't afford to make
mistakes to anybody. With Bernie in the middle of the line-up, the way he swung the bat
yesterday and at the end of the year -- you try to pick your spots and you try to do your
best to make good pitches on him. You know, their whole line-up is quality. It's not like
you can just pick out one guy and say this is the guy you can't let beat you. I think
that's why they have success; is because they're willing to take that walk or sacrifice
their at-bat to let the next guy beat you. Especially last year's team I thought was
really good at that, and this year's team is basically the same team. There isn't any
selfishness in that line-up. They're not afraid to walk and let the next guy try to beat
you. Like I said, up and down the line-up, one through nine, just like our line-up, they
have guys that can beat you. You can't single out one guy. Even though Bernie's hot, the
other eight guys are just as good and can hurt you just as much. You have to pitch all of
them extremely tough.

Q. What did you learn by watching Aaron (Sele) last night and his performance that you
can take into tomorrow?

RICK HELLING: Well, Aaron and I are similar style pitchers, so the last two years we've
followed each other. He's either pitched the day before me or the day after me for two
years straight now, and we talk a lot about the opposing line-up and how we plan to get
them out. Obviously I'm not going to go into that with you. But there's things you see
that you can try to approach a hitter, but like I said, their hitters are so good, there's
not really many weaknesses. You have to just make good pitches. If you make good pitches,
your chances are better than if you make bad pitches. I thought Aaron threw the ball great
last night. The first run was scored on a ball that Rusty lost, and then he gave up the
other -- the other two runs late before he got pulled. But I thought Aaron threw the ball
extremely well. He mixes his pitches well. He threw a lot of fast balls early in the game
and mixed his breaking ball in there later. With the Yankees, I think you just can't stay
in a pattern with them. Their line-up is extremely good on sitting on pitches and if you
keep throwing them the same pitch in the same spot, they're going to just do it and hit
it. As far as what I learned last night, like I said, there's some little things that I
saw, but obviously I'm not going to go into that with you. With Aaron and I being similar
style pitchers, it helps a little bit to look at what he's done and I can try to do the
same things.

Q. What's been the problem for you in the long ball, is it falling behind, getting the
ball up, what are your concerns about that for tomorrow night?

RICK HELLING: I think the main thing, just all -- I mean everything you mentioned
basically has been the problem in those situations. But it all stems back to one thing,
and that's consistency with my delivery. This year I haven't been as consistent with my
delivery as I was last year, and, therefore, it causes you to fall behind in the count,
causes you to miss your location more. All those things go back to that, and, you know,
that's something you're constantly working on as a pitcher, is to be consistent with your
delivery so when you're on the mound all you have to worry about is trying to get the
hitter out. You're not worried about am I rushing to the plate, are my mechanics good?
You're focusing on what you need to do to get this hitter out. And I have the utmost
confidence in myself that I'll make the pitch when I have to. There's going to be games,
there's going to be pitches when I don't. But I work hard between starts. I work hard
between starts to get that consistency and to get the feel for all my pitches, and, you
know, I think I'm ready for tomorrow. Obviously it's a big game for us. I know the Yankees
are going to be ready as well. I'm going to try to come out and do the best I can to give
our team a chance to win.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT