EUROCARD OPEN
October 25, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You made a big, big jump in this tournament to get into the Top 8. Are you pretty
pleased with that? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: You mean for The Road to Hannover?  
 
Q. Yes.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, it is definitely better to be up with the Top 8 than be outside
and hunting. So, definitely, it is looking good. But, I think it will be up to Stockholm
before it will decide who the 8 guys are going to be. 
 
Q. Did you have pretty good ambitions coming into this week knowing you had a chance --
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I definitely was hoping to do good result here. I think still I
am, you know, it is good to be in the semis, but I definitely was hoping to get further
than that. I thought I had a good chance today, but unfortunately, I couldn't take
advantage of it. 
 
Q. What kind of goals do you have to set for yourself to keep that 8th or 7th or 6th
position?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: For the rest of the year?  
 
Q. Yeah, for the next two weeks.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Definitely it is a big goal to be a part of Hannover. That is probably
my main goal for the year to get into Hannover. And, also to get into the Top 10 and
hopefully have a good finish with Davis Cup. 
 
Q. One questionable call doesn't normally settle a match, but how distracting was that
one to you when you lost your serve in the third set?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: You definitely said it correctly: Normally one call normally don't hurt
a match either way. But I think today, against Richard who was serving so big in the end
of second and beginning of third, it definitely hurt me because the longer we get in the
third set, you could get into the tiebreaker and I think I got the advantage of better
returns and having a better chance to win the match. And now, unfortunately, he got up
15-30 instead of I would have had 30-15 and that is a big difference in these kind of
matches when Richard only serving big and chip-and-charge all the time and never really
give me any rhythm. So, definitely I was frustrated about it because I think the umpire,
if he is into the match, normally you sit up on the chair and looking. I mean, he is
sitting like this. (Indicating slouching) I think that is too bad because it is two
important matches coming up now, I mean, this week and the last two weeks. 
 
Q. Was there a bit of that frustration in the doublefault to follow?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I don't think I doublefaulted there. I think he made a backhand
winner down-the-line to 15-40 and -- 
 
Q. Oh, yes, he did, sorry. Beg your pardon.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: -- then I made a big serve and I missed the forehand volley. So, he
broke me. So, I mean, that is big; especially when you play a big server like Richard. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT