U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK: Thank you.

SE RI PAK: Right now actually many people ask me what happen, like, because they think
about last year, I played good season, right now kind of pretty quiet. I don't have any
problem right now. Actually feel like more a lot better than last year. I learned more,
then I can feel like my game is more strong. I can trust myself. When I play golf outside,
it is very comfortable. That is pretty important. So actually everything right now all
set, I mean, ready to go.

SE RI PAK: Because of last year, first time in my country, they don't have anything
happen like this, especially golf, you know. Normal people think about golf from my
country like, you know, kind of pretty rich sport. That is why many old people thinking
like it is not good sport for our country. They feel like we messed up a beautiful
mountain, everything, but it is not really. But after I started winning here, then all
normal people thinking like whether it is golf or not, they are pretty happy because they
are thinking like our country, like, kind of we can show, we have pretty strong sports
players. Right now, I am here, what I am doing pretty proud of me, you know. Many people,
many attention, especially media, my friend, my country. Sometimes it is pretty hard to
handle it. Sometimes I not play good. Of course I try my best, but every week I cannot get
No. 1 in the trophy every week. I am pretty strong player. Outside, many strong players. I
cannot be all the time No. 1. Sometimes they don't understand right now here how tough all
players, golf course condition anything. Sometimes they are pretty upset, not playing
good, that makes pretty hard time. But it is okay because they love me. That is what they
want to see me. They want to win; me to win. So right now it is okay, I am fine.

Q. Se Ri, some of the players that we have talked to said that you seem much more
relaxed nowadays that you are having fun, that you seem to be enjoying yourself more. I
wonder if you'll give us your thoughts there?

SE RI PAK: Yeah, it is, better than last year. Last year pretty much busy. Studying,
win -- especially after I win the U.S. Open, getting -- many people, there are many media
from my country here, every week. I have spent like three or four years interview, getting
more -- I cannot practice, I have to spend my practice time. That makes me upset and not
happy. Then getting more, every week, too much work, then a more soft season. I cannot
focus my game. I have to think about schedule, what I have to do things, that, you know, I
have only one body. I can do 10, 15 things. That makes it pretty difficult. I decided I
cannot be like this all the time. I am to play long time, I am to be No. 1 in the world
like long time, so I decided I just want to take care of 50% myself, no matter what, then
50% I am going to focus more on my game. That is my new goal in 1999.

Q. Last year in a matter of six or seven weeks you won two major championships, and you
won them with drive, just strong personal drive. What you are telling me or what I think
you are telling me is that you are relaxed more now and you don't have that drive quite as
strong as you had last year.

SE RI PAK: My driver --

SE RI PAK: Actually, no, I think it is different -- on the other side, last year looks
like more strong than this year, because last year I didn't know anything about golf
course, here, players, people, you know, every different city. Then I look like, kind of
strong, just kind of tension, you know. One shot when I hit the ball, sometimes I cannot
trust, even though I hit the ball, I don't know which way it go. That kind of feeling.
This year is like when I play golf outside in tournament, like feel like more focused one
shot by one shot. I want to be perfect. Then I try to do my best more than last year, and
I just want to show more, more perfectly. Last year I hit a little bit bad, still close to
the pin. This year is more clear, perfect. That is why looks like pretty quiet, looks like
that kind of feel, I think.

Q. Who is helping you with your game right now?

SE RI PAK: Right now nobody yet. Just like -- my dad, sometime he visit me like few
tournaments. When he came -- next week, I think, so my dad is here. He checked on my
swing. Then, you know, everything. But I am just trying to find right now. I don't have
any time right now trying to find new coach.

Q. How well does this golf course suit your game?

SE RI PAK: Actually it is pretty good. A lot better than last year. Last year was very
difficult. Right now I feel like more -- of course, still it is not that easy. I know the
golf course is -- every hole is like, you know, different feel, different looking, kind of
-- it is not that easy feel like, but better than last year. Kind of more wider looks
like; looks like big greens. But actually it is pretty good -- pretty good feel, because
when the fairway's pretty good condition, greens pretty fast, very beautiful. Every like
weather -- everything is perfect. Not only me, all players feel the same way, I think.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about -- so much has been said about the playoff last year
between you and Jenny. Obviously you win it last year. You are going to try a three-peat.
Can you talk about the pressure? Do you feel it for this year?

SE RI PAK: Actually, I don't know, maybe 50/50 because, I mean -- I know this is like
me, my thinking is I need some more time to learn. I am still -- I still feel like rookie.
I didn't know that much right now, even though last year I didn't know anything about golf
course, people, players, but this year I know that I make many friends from here and I
know many people. And I feel like more comfortable than last year. But it is not that easy
of a time from this year, 1999, is new season, new year. I have to start over, you know,
it is -- last year -- from last year it is nothing; it is finish, passed away. I have to
start over. Means I have to work more hard, I have to start again, everything. I know that
and I don't want to push myself. I want to be more long time to play good, so I don't want
to -- I have long time to go, so nothing help for me when I push myself. I am thinking
about my friends, they want to see me. They want to see me win. They want to feel like
happy from last year like that. Sometimes that makes me, you know, it is more kind of when
I play golf, more -- sometime I push myself, but, you know, it is not that easy every
week, every time. But still I try my best every week no matter what. Almost I get there,
almost -- almost I am pretty close. Right now I am pretty happy with what I am doing.
Every week no matter if I play good or bad, still I am happy. I try my best, everything,
so, you know.....

Q. When you were on the practice range yesterday, were you going in the tent and
looking at yourself on film, and what were you picking up and what were you trying to work
on?

SE RI PAK: Sometimes many coach -- anyway, players need coach because we have to check
our swing, we have to -- we want to get perfect feel, perfect swing. Sometime we have to
know what is the problem. We have to fix ourself all the time because we cannot -- coaches
cannot be with me all the time. So I have to fix myself. I have to trip and get right now
something wrong that he can feel that. So yesterday on the range, I checked my swing, I
saw it. I know I don't have any big problem. But sometimes feels like my tempo is a little
bit lazy. That is why sometimes my swing is a little bit longer, that makes me a little
fade. Pretty easy to fix. I find out right after I finish practice bunker, feel like more
tight, more strong. Those things.

Q. You said you are more comfortable with your game Se Ri. Are you frustrated at all
that you are not getting the kind of results that seemed to have come to you so easily
last year?

SE RI PAK: No, (laughs) no. It is not really -- you know, just -- think I feel like
need some time. I don't want to be hurry right now, even though right now like 150 players
usually. But all the time top players, many -- every week they watch TV and they know the
names and in the newspaper; but other players, they are trying their best every week. Of
course they want to get the trophy and win. But, see, me from last year I am rookie. I
have a great season. But other players like me, they have good talent. They are great
players, but they need some time. I feel like the same. Like kind of -- I don't have any
reason right now. I mean, like I am not playing -- I don't have any reason, just kind of
need some time to learn more. I think time to learn. From last year too, I think that kind
of time.

Q. During your practice round today you paused on several occasions and wrote many
notes on your course book. What kind of things do you write to yourself in those books?

SE RI PAK: Maybe all players do same. I don't know what they are doing. But what I am
doing is every hole, when I hit the driver which way, I have to be more perfect, my
distance, then like more better aiming, more better angle. Second thing is on the green,
or front edge, fringe, chipping, the different areas kind of, breaks, speed, downhill,
uphill; this ball is like, that, you know, everything is checking. Of course not that
perfect all the time. My ball is there, but just in case I have to -- sometimes like for
start tournament, I don't know which way my ball goes. So I have to check everywhere, even
though it is not important, but important for me because I know -- it is more important to
me because I know about more pretty well, and I don't have any -- have any pressure when I
chipping, putting, bad times. Makes me more kind of comfortable.

Q. Can you talk about your memories from last year's Open; especially the playoff with
Jenny and also about the fact that Jenny is going to be coming here as a pro as opposed to
her being an amateur?

SE RI PAK: It is 1998. Actually 1997 is the first time I played U.S. Open. Other time,
nobody know. Another time I didn't get ready yet. Doesn't pass the Q-School yet, just come
over here. I am waiting Q-School, but I have some chance to get U.S. Open. So first time I
play 1997. That time pretty hard. Just kind of, I didn't know about any people, golf
course, even my caddies, you know, nobody knows. I have to work more hard because I didn't
know -- different speeds than my country and everything. That time I finished pretty well.
First one -- I mean 21, so, that is perfect, you know, time, not bad. First time I tried,
not bad; especially big tournament, not bad. So before I feel like if I leave golf course
I just tell myself I should have really won that trophy, maybe I got the trophy. I am very
happy, no matter what. After that, I pass the Q-School, the season start, too busy time,
you know. I knew it is not that easy, but pretty hard for me from first year. Then another
year I have chance to play in the U.S. Open, but I didn't know at that time I can get the
trophy. Other time I go every week, no matter what, even though I play good or bad. Every
week my goal is I want to get the trophy -- big, small, no matter what. But every year I
keep trying like that. Then I get first my major, LPGA, McDonald's, I feel more confident.
Then getting right after I win, start kind of big up-and-down. Then finally U.S. Open came
at that time, so seems like every week is my best; I practice hard. It is more difficult
golf course, I know. First time I saw the kind of difficult golf course, I don't have any
idea when I hit the ball, I have to think about next shot. First round, second round,
pretty good. Third round is still good. Final round, still I am there, start hanging
there. So after I finish I have to go to -- I mean, almost finished I know I can -- I have
chance to win. I can have my trophy even know one year is later, pretty quick. I know I am
not finished yet. I just want to finish, take it home. At that time I know I win or
something happen. Finally I have to go to playoff. I just tell my caddie, maybe USGA, they
say I have to go to playoff. I say: Okay. Anyway I don't have any chance, no choice. I
have to get the trophy then I have to do it. I just tell my caddie, I said: I am ready,
let's go. What, 16 or 18. After finish a few holes. Okay. I am ready, let's go. The caddie
said: No, no. I said: What do you mean no? Then he said: You will play tomorrow morning.
To play 18 holes. That makes me -- after I finished, I said: My head is getting headache,
I have to play again the kind of difficult golf course. I have to -- something -- Next
morning I play with Jenny, she is same my age. I am pretty surprised. 20 years old, two
young girl, play playoff in U.S. Open. That maybe is biggest thing before. I start first
hole, second, third -- wow. She is playing really good. At that time, I feel like I can
feel like -- I don't need to see, I just feel very solid. She hit it close. I know she
make the putt. But I have chance too, just started. I play my game, pay attention to
myself. Keep trying, trying, trying. Almost finished the playoff. Still I have chance.
Then No. 18, finally my ball is going into the water, so I don't have any chance anymore.
At that time, feel like I am trying my best, still happy, but almost I get there last
hole. Like this happened, that makes me pretty sad. Still I have chance, I can see my
ball, I can still have chance; never give up. Keep trying more hard, keep thinking. I just
try to -- that last second, I just was trying to do my best. So I decided my caddie and me
trying to hit my ball inside the water. I get into the water. I am trying to practice, but
it is impossible to try and practice swing. I had no choice. I have to hit it right away.
So if I hit the ball, I think -- I don't know. My eyes closed, or I don't know, very fast
second. So anyway, I know that I just waiting, ball sounds into the water, or I can feel
like people, they are screaming good news, people say something else. Right after that, I
just listen to the people. Then I know my ball is outside. So I am pretty happy. Still I
have chance. Then that happens. Still tie, pretty tough, difficult point. Really difficult
to get the trophy. Then Jenny she is a great player. I mean, that time she is pretty
strong already. She feels pretty good. She know, she can feel that. Last second I try my
best, make the putts, make the putts. We have to go. Another hole again. Then I know after
I finish 18th hole, I can feel I know that the trophy is pretty close to me. More looks
like more strong player, more -- hit more longer. I don't know what it feels like -- feel
like I want to. Finally hole No. 11, we have two birdie chance same time. She missed the
putt. Right after I tried my putt, I know the putt is in, like before I hit the ball,
before practice my swing, I feel like I made it in. That is why this happened. 1998,
finally dreaming trophy, very difficult to get it. Worked pretty hard. So I got the
trophy. Right now I am here. Then I learn many things from U.S. Open from last year. That
is why I can play more better. I know what happened. I can control. Now I come back.

Q. For the last year you have been the United States Open champion, and now it is
Christmas Eve again. You are going to have to go back out there and try and win it again.
It has been done six times before in the 53 years of the Women's U.S. Open that champions
have repeated. I know you want to do that, but let me ask you this: You are playing on a
golf course that has eight, nine water holes or water comes into play. A two-part
question: How do you play a course that is dominated by water holes, how does water affect
your game, No. 1? No. 2, is this a tougher golf course than the one you won the Open on
before? Your opinion.

SE RI PAK: Yeah. Actually I know this golf course has lots of water, different than
last year. Last year had lots of rough. Hilly, big up-and-down. This year has lots of
water. I know that especially back 9, left-hand side water. But like same. Every golf
course, not exactly same. Every golf course have some big hilly, big water, big bunker,
have some special difficult -- some make the golf course design. So this one is same, like
every week I am doing, make my driver in the fairway. Of course every player want it. I
just want to try to play pretty smart. If I have some water on the left side, doesn't
matter, I just want -- I trust myself to hit the ball, that ball is right into the
fairway, so that means looks like pretty simple, but it is not that easy. So I just -- I
know pretty -- many thing to work from this golf course, but I just want to try other
times same. My routine, what I am doing, every golf course, every tournament, same. Then
second answer is the defending champion -- every golf course is not that easy. From last
year it is very difficult, but this year, still difficult. Of course last year has like
deep rough, difficult grass, difficult greens. Every hole is pretty narrow. But this golf
course has lots of water; have to be pretty smart to play because of water. Don't have any
chance to -- I don't think it is not that easy golf course every week. I don't think --
still difficult.

Q. Can you talk about some of things you are doing specifically that are off the golf
course that make you a happier person?

SE RI PAK: Actually the same. When I play golf -- it is better than last year because I
interviewed, talk on the phone, pictures, things like that. Still busy. But this year, I
mean, I still practice. It is more happy, more fun, more happy to practice at home without
the golf course. But still pretty comfortable to practice, play, happy. So that is why a
lot happy than last year. Can play more -- I can practice more. I can play more. That is
why more happy. Nothing else. Same when I leave golf. Practice, go home, practice, go
home.

Q. An opportunity to talk to Jenny about last year's final round. She is turning pro in
this tournament. What advice would you have for her as she heads into her first year as a
professional golfer?

SE RI PAK: Actually, yeah, Jenny is a great amateur wanting to turn pro, it is pretty
good things. They just feel like they can growing, but I feel like totally different than
professional than amateur. We know then maybe they know they can feel right after they
study really professional golf, tournaments, play with top players. I just want -- yeah.
That is why I feel too before I came here. But I just want to tell -- I mean, actually I
didn't say anything about them because I still learn, me just started, I am still baby.
But important thing is right now, what we are doing, what I am doing, they have to be
happy, they have to get their confidence themselves, no matter what. Golf course pretty
hard, even though they turned pro, they cannot win. Maybe few years. I mean, I am still --
maybe I am rookie, maybe I cannot win few years. That is golf. Golf is pretty hard sport.
That is why don't just feel like drop, you know. Just keep work hard, have some
confidence. That makes them happy. Helps them having fun outside. I think that is more
important. I just want to tell them no matter what, I know it is pretty hard, so just kind
of thinking this is learn, have the time to learn, so they just want to have, still have
the confidence themselves.

SE RI PAK: No. Actually Media Day, I -- many people asked me. Did you talk to Jenny? Do
you know Jenny? I said no. Actually I just play with her like five hours on the golf
course. That is it. I didn't even talk to her, say, you know, things like: What are you
doing after that? Things like that. I don't have any time to talk with -- pretty
important, pretty busy to play, because hard golf course. I didn't even know. Then I don't
have time to talk to her. Right after say -- right after, I just want to talk to her. Many
people just come in and they interview, taking pictures, things like that. At that time I
think I don't have any time to say bye to her I think. Even until right now, I didn't even
saw her. I saw her first time in first major, Nabisco. That time I didn't know that she
was there. One day, I don't know, first round; second I cannot remember. But at that time
in the morning I am trying to walk to driving range. Someone said hi to me. All the time
many people say hi to me. I say hi, walk pass them because I am pretty busy to practice.
Same happened. Someone say hi to me. Then I say hi; then I just walk. I say I saw her
somewhere but I cannot actually remember because few second I just pass her. Wait, I think
I know her, but I just turn around, I saw her, it is Jenny. So at that time I say hi to
her, I am pretty busy with press things like that, but otherwise no time to talk to her
still. Maybe she turned pro, we can just play together, you know, things like that.
Actually I don't have any time to talk.

Q. It sounds likes you have regrets in terms of the changes you have made with your
coach and the management and everything like that, sounds like you are happier now with
what is going on than you were last year?

SE RI PAK: Yeah, it is true. Last year I am still -- like from last year, first of all,
first answer I just finish my coach. I know he is number one; he is great coach. He is
pretty famous. Then I know I learn from him a lot, but I just feel like I work with him
two years. But he just kind of -- every time he is busy, you know, even the first year
1997 I just waiting Q-School at that time, you know, I am not busy, stay there and
practice myself, pretty hard to practice, hot weather, still practice. He is not there all
the time. He just came like sometime -- all the time he travels, so he come back, he just
check my swing one time. I just practice pretty hard myself; he is not there anyway, he is
leaving. He come back, check it. I practice myself. So 1998 -- finally I pass the Q-School
1998 season start. Still he is busy. Still he is pretty busy. I cannot see him that much;
especially he didn't come any my tournament. He said he came to McDonald's. At that time
he have some problem. He came to U.S. Open; he say he has another problem. So I didn't
even talk to him. He don't have any time to check my swing. So right after almost
off-season I just go, I just want to talk to him about this. I don't have any time, any --
other tournaments, so I just want find good time to talk to him about this. But I just
actually, now he -- that happened, he just makes himself, you know, himself -- he doesn't
want me anymore. So, well, I mean, fine. I didn't mean like that, but he is just thinking
it, he -- that is why I don't want -- I don't care famous or not. I don't want all the
time famous coach, I don't want any No. 1 in the world; I just want to find -- I really I
think all players, they need -- they feel like they need real coach, meaning how to take
care of players, about swing, how do they make players pretty good play, things like that,
they don't take care of that. But the times I feel like to work myself. I just want to
find better schedule, better coach, you know, I just want to be more comfortable when I
talk everything to understand that he fix everything. I just need that kind of coach. Then
second answer is like my management, IMG right now, but before just quiet, it is like --
it is -- my old manager is pretty-- worked pretty hard. I agree he worked very hard. He is
pretty nice people. But I find out he just doesn't know what he is doing. That makes me
more worried, management is -- I mean, management has to take care of its players,
schedule, everything. I understand he take a schedule, everything, but I feel like nothing
different. I have to do everything, feel like kind of clearly, do this; no, that; you have
to do that -- I mean, all the time I just cannot play, too many things around me, too many
happen to me, that makes me more messed up, everything. So I decided I need very strong
manager around me and I can play more focus, I can practice more focused. More important
is I have to -- this is my job, so I have to be, you know, more focused my game, I have to
be what I am doing is more happy. But before it is like many things like too many works
happen.

SE RI PAK: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT