DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 10, 2000
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 SE RI PAK: I got -- I started at 10, but I'll do the first hole. No. 2, I hit a 4-iron
to tee, and I think I hit it perfect, but it was right in line, so it was like four feet;
I made a birdie. Then right after No. 3, I had the first bogey for the day. I hit the
second shot with a 9-iron. I had a good lie that was perfect. When I got to the green, I
noticed it was short. I had a great chip there, like five feet to the hole. I missed the
putt and had a bogey. No. 9, it was a par-5. I hit the second shot with a 3-iron, but a
little breeze. Then I chipped great, four feet, and made a birdie. Then on No. 13, I hit a
6-iron to the green and 7 feet, right-to-left downhill. Then No. 14 is par-5. I hit the
second shot to the right, and it was a little bit of deep rough over there. I had a great
chip, and probably like ten feet for a birdie.  
 
Q. How did the course play today?
 
 SE RI PAK: The golf course is great right now. The rough is getting long, and the
greens small, sometimes a little firm and fast. It's fast right now. The fairways are
pretty narrow. It's not easy to hit the fairway all the time. But everything is fine, as
far as the golf course. But actually I didn't hit great today, my shot. I got pretty much
a lot up-and-down. So I can say I didn't have my A-game today, like Tiger. But my iron
shots were not great, so I had a lot of up-and-down. But I had a great save four or five
times, I guess. So that's why I think I had a great finish today. 
 
Q. No joking aside, you really haven't had your A-game this year?
 
 SE RI PAK: I tried to get my A-game all the time, every week, but it's not easy -- it's
not easy to get it. The last two years I had a great season, a great year. I had a lot of
confidence for the last two years; same as this year, too, I had a lot of confidence. It's
more confidence, more comfortable. I more enjoyed it. But actually I think -- I think just
a great time right now. It's time to learn more about my game, about myself, I guess. So I
think this is a pretty good experience for me to have time, like I'm a little bit down,
then I know what to do, I know what I need to work on. Now I can work harder as before,
the same, and just keep playing at trying to find out what happened and trying to find out
what's wrong with my game. I don't have any big problem, just kind of get through easily,
I think that is this year, like all year is already I've had the same feeling. I think
this is in some way the time to learn more about my game. I think it's like time to learn. 
 
Q. Is it frustrating that you haven't won yet this year?
 
 SE RI PAK: I have four times a great chance. Only like one bad shot for me. This year
looks like I get there, I know that I can do that, and so the last few holes before I
finish, just four times, I got pretty much just -- I cannot -- I just don't know what
happened. I don't know what happened. I know it's not easy, but this year is pretty much a
little bit confused about everything happened for me. So I think that is good experience
for my game and I guess for my feelings. I think this is great this year. I know I'll work
harder, and I know I'll pretty much get there. I just keep working and working. 
 
Q. Se Ri, did you find your round today quite a bit of a scramble? I was thinking about
17 when you hit the tree and then you were left of the green. That was a great 4. Was it a
lot of holes like that, a bit of a struggle?
 
 SE RI PAK: Not really. Just -- that is my worst -- that is my bad shot for the day, I
guess. Otherwise it was a little bit short to the green, and chip it on the green or putt.
But otherwise I don't have any kind of big problem today. It's just okay, but it's the
consistency. That's why I have a lot of up-and-down. 
 
Q. The weather has been so crazy the last couple of days, but today I don't think it
got much better than this.
 
 SE RI PAK: I think today is perfect. This weather is perfect, not much wind. Hot, but
it is okay, better than last week. Everything is perfect, just outside and play golf and
enjoy the game. 
 
Q. How much has Butch (Harmon) changed your swing, or has he changed your swing?
 
 SE RI PAK: I don't think I cannot have an answer for that, because -- I try to start
working with Butch, but actually I don't have any time. He doesn't have any time either,
because Tiger is so great. He's so busy. So --. 
 
Q. So you really haven't seen Butch?
 
 SE RI PAK: No. I think right now I can't answer that. Nothing is going to change --. 
 
Q. So you're back to working with nobody?
 
 SE RI PAK: No. Just -- still same as before. But after this week, I think I've got to
find a coach after this week. So this is my last week for being by myself in practice.
After this week, I think I'm trying to find a coach. 
 
Q. Do you have a list of candidates? The same candidates you had before?
 
 SE RI PAK: Like what? 
 
Q. Like what's-her-name. I can't think of her name. The girl who used to work with
Leadbetter.
 
 SE RI PAK: I never thought about it; I never thought about him. 
 
Q. Have you been wanting to work with Butch, but he can't fit you in?
 
 SE RI PAK: Actually, not that kind of schedule, just -- it looks like pretty much Tiger
is doing so well, everybody knows that right now. And at the same time, I think they are
getting together long time. I know that he's more important, because he's Tiger, than
actually I can just not find on my schedule with Butch. And I just even think I don't have
any sense for that, so actually he doesn't have any time, both of us, to be together. So I
decided actually I don't think it's going to work that well. So I'm just going to try
after this week. 
 
Q. How many times have you worked with Butch?
 
 SE RI PAK: Actually, I don't know. Maybe a few times already starting, I guess, when? A
few months ago?  
 
Q. Three to five?
 
 SE RI PAK: Maybe three times, two or three times. But just kind of only one or two
days. 
 
Q. Having won your two majors as a rookie, you must appreciate what feelings Diana has
leading a major as a rookie after her first round. Would you talk about that?
 
 SE RI PAK: After the first round?  
 
Q. How she must feel. 
 
 SE RI PAK: Actually, I think that is great for her. Maybe after -- whether or not she
wins or not, just starting so well in a major, I think that -- for me, this give me a lot
of confidence, you know? It looks like I can trust I can hit, and I know I can do that. I
think it's the same as she's feeling. So that is good for her. 
 
Q. How many weeks in a row is this?
 
 SE RI PAK: This is my fourth. 
 
Q. Did you bring your dog this week?
 
 SE RI PAK: No, I don't think -- I cannot bring my dog here. So I have to give to my
friends to take care of the whole week. 
 
Q. Because of customs?
 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah. I miss my dog a lot, though. 
 
Q. How is this year different from your first year? Do you have more time for yourself
now?
 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah. 
 
Q. Does that make you feel more relaxed and comfortable?
 
 SE RI PAK: Uh-huh. The last two years -- first year was so busy, I have to spend my
time in interview, take pictures, meet people, all different kind of stuff, without the
practice. So every week four or five weeks normally, do something -- stuff like that. So
all the times my body is -- I didn't think about the next shot, next hole. After this,
I've got this schedule. I know this is not right; I couldn't handle it. So many things,
but it's impossible to do all the things. After the first year, I knew that I have to
figure out my schedule and I have to take care of myself more than anyone. So I just
decided to get a more better schedule. I just decided to get more focused on my game, then
keep working that slowly. That's why I think this year everything is going to be different
than last two years. I've got more time for myself. I'm more focused on my game, practice,
whatever I want, as long as I want. Then I just go rest. And everything is going to be
perfect right now. I just need to work hard and find my game. That's what I need right
now. 
 
Q. Are you playing next week?
 
 SE RI PAK: Nope. 
 
Q. Going home to your dog?
 
 SE RI PAK: Going home to rest. 
 
Q. Is it tough to go on, to motivate yourself to go on, after the success you had in
the first two years?
 
 SE RI PAK: Not really. I think I feel a lot better. I don't think the last two years I
got everything so well. And during that time, it feels like I don't have any problem, just
keep playing, play, play. I never thought about it much that time. But this year I think
even better, I didn't even play well, but it just feels like -- I can be like great
player. Right now this time, this year, everything is giving me a lot. I can control
myself more inside. It feels a lot different than the last two years. It looks like
everything -- feels like growing -- it feels like I'm growing up still. It's like my golf
game, everything, it's all right if something happen. So I think this year is pretty much
good for me. After I get through this year I'm probably going to be -- who knows, I'm
going to be like a Tiger. Just trying to be on the A-game all the time. I just want to be
a top player. This time is perfect to have, I guess. You have to pass this level for the
game more higher. This is a perfect time to get it. So I think that is perfect. I feel
like more happy.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT