MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 17, 1998
Andy Ashby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Andy, this has been by all accounts a career year for you?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: One of the main things is staying healthy. It's been a struggle the past
few years. But I think it's made me a stronger person. Being healthy and also Dave Stewart
just going to the middle part of the game and not thinking about the seventh inning when
you're starting the game. It's taking it pitch by pitch, out by out, minimize your
mistakes and not pitch yourself in the beginning. I think that's been a big plus for what
we've done this year. 
 
Q. Any special concerns about a Yankee lineup, you probably haven't seen this season?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: I mean they're a great ballclub. I think the main thing, like I said
earlier, is just minimize your mistakes and try and control your emotions the first few
innings where you're not walking guys and pitching yourself in the beginning. But if you
keep -- you know, the top three guys off base, you have a pretty good chance. If you give
up a solo homerun, it's a lot better than giving up a two or three-run home run. Minimize
your mistakes, take it pitch by pitch. Go out there and give your club a chance to win. 
 
Q. How has Dave Stewart influenced your season?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: Stu's been a big part of it. Ever since spring training we've gone over the
mental part of the game and trying to stay focused on one thing instead of trying to look
at the big picture. And not trying to hurry yourself to get it over with, just, you know,
think about it through every pitch. And, you know, if you have bases loaded, no outs,
think about getting a ground ball or a popup or something, instead of trying to stay okay,
I have to strike three guys out to get out of the inning without no runs. That's a big
part of what Stu has brought to not only myself but everyone else on the staff. 
 
Q. Do you have any awareness of El Duque, of what he's gone through to get here?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: A little bit. I know it's been a battle for him to get here, but I think it
goes to show how much desire that he has to play Major League Baseball and what it means
to him and not only him, but to everyone that puts this uniform on. It's something that
you thank God for every day, and I mean everyone out there on that field is blessed with a
talent, and what he went through and, you know, where he's at today, I'm sure he looks
back and it's probably an amazing story. But this is what you play the game for, to get to
this situation. I think we all have to, you know, check ourselves and look at ourself in
the mirror and thank God every day for the seasons that we've had and the opportunity we
have right now to be playing in the World Series. 
 
Q. What do you think of pitching in Yankee Stadium, all the history and everything? And
can you compare it to any National League park that you may have worked in?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: You know, Yankee Stadium is something special with all the history, you go
back and look at the monuments, see the type of players, you look back on the things that
have happened in the stadium. It's very special. But, you know, Wrigley Field is, you
know, also has a lot of history I think. The stadium isn't quite as nice as this and the
fans aren't really as rowdy as probably these guys get, but it's going to be fun. You're
in the World Series, I don't think we really care where we're playing. It makes it a
little more special knowing you're going to pitch in Yankee Stadium. 
 
Q. Andy, how much do you talk to guys like Langston, former American Leaguers in
addition to former Yankees as you approach their lineup for any information?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: Quite a bit. I know yesterday I kind of picked his mind a little bit, asked
him about certain hitters. I had faced Paul O'Neill when he was with Cincinnati and played
with Joe Girardi. There's a couple guys I have an idea of. Sterling Hitchcock played here,
I kind of picked his mind. Jim Leyritz. We have some guys that have been around, see in
lineup. Dave Stewart, he hasn't been out of the game that long, he's pitched against the
Yankees quite a while. There's a lot of opportunity to ask guys and get some ideas on what
I want to do tomorrow. Plus watching Kevin work tonight and see how he approaches hitters
is going to be a big plus for me. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT