U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jana, when is the last time you played a singles on 16? Has it been a long time.

JANA NOVOTNA: Tuesday, I played my first match there, and I like that court very much,
I thought that it is a very nice court, very cozy, and quite lot of people can get in and
I like that.

Q. Did you play there in recent years much or have you been outside a lot?

JANA NOVOTNA: Yes. Most of the time actually. It is -- I really have to work my way,
you know, really hard. I start on the outside courts; I make my way to Center Court.

Q. I don't mean to like accuse them of lack of respect, but --

JANA NOVOTNA: No.

Q. -- For a player of your ranking, is that a little surprising to you that you are
still working your way in from out there? 

JANA NOVOTNA: No, not really. Not here at the Open, no. You know, I think they not only
looking at your seeding or if you are interesting player, but I understand that if you
play, you know, first round or second round matches and they expecting them to be quite
easy that, you know, they rather put you in the other court and have some exciting match
going on in the main courts, but, you know, sometimes it would be good to get some
practice on the center court because it is quite different, really.

Q. Are the courts themselves different or is it a feeling?

JANA NOVOTNA: I found the courts, every court here at the Open is really different. The
grandstand is a little slower; center court is faster. Court 16 is about the same, so --
but, you know, we got used to this over the years.

Q. Court 16 about the same as Center Court?

JANA NOVOTNA: Yes, I would say.

Q. And it is really, to me, it seems really noisy there when they have the changeovers
and people walking on the aluminum--

JANA NOVOTNA: Court 16?

Q. Do you notice? 

JANA NOVOTNA: You do notice, yes, of course it makes you very tired and you really have
to concentrate hard, but, you know, I wouldn't say it is much different on the center
court. The Center Court could be really noisy too, so ... It is New York. It is not like
at Wimbledon that you can hear a pin drop.

Q. How did you feel -- I mean, it looked easy.

JANA NOVOTNA: I felt very good, really. First time that I came to the Open feeling
really good about my game, and I started very nicely and positively and happily and I
enjoyed every point of my yesterday's match and today's match, so it has been great.

Q. Do you know who you play next?

JANA NOVOTNA: Sandrine Testud, a French girl. That should be an interesting one too.

Q. Do they tell you right after the match when and where you will play again? When will
you find out?

JANA NOVOTNA: Tonight.

Q. You will find out tonight?

JANA NOVOTNA: Yes. As soon as all the matches are finished.

Q. You will get about a day's warning to know where and when you play?

JANA NOVOTNA: Not really, no. If I have to play tomorrow, I only find out tonight about
6 o'clock, then, you know, you don't have that much time, but this -- still have to play
doubles, so I have to be here anyway.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT