TMS - STUTTGART
November 2, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Marat, please. 

Q. Was the last service game in the first set the key of the match?

MARAT SAFIN: I think I had also had one opportunity before, 15-40 on his serve, and I
couldn't do anything. I think I did not play well. I did not play tactically well. That
was the problem. I played too passive. It was difficult to, you know, win this match
playing like this. 

Q. Was the relief of having beaten Santoro ...

MARAT SAFIN: No. You have to give something more than just pass the ball over the net.
I had to make something more because he played very well, I think, for his game. He served
well. He played from the baseline well. He didn't miss not so many balls. But I couldn't
do anything. That was a problem. I just really upset because I lost a big opportunity, you
know, to be a little bit closer to No. 1. I couldn't do this. It's a little bit -- you get
upset with yourself, because had everything, serving for the set, and suddenly everything
changed. That's life. 

Q. Because you were tired?

MARAT SAFIN: No. Tired, no. Tactically, I didn't play well because I just don't -- I
didn't make the point. I just pass the ball all the time. Probably I would need some help,
but nobody could give me advice. I knew that something I was doing wrong, because is not
possible that he beats me from the baseline - but he was beating me from the baseline.
Something was wrong. I didn't know what it was. Nobody give me advice. 

Q. How important is it you win the campaign for the new generation, that you succeed in
your game?

MARAT SAFIN: What do you mean? 

Q. You're part of the New Balls campaign. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah.

Q. Part of this new generation. How important is it that you succeed, the other
youngsters, win the games?

MARAT SAFIN: It's more important for us. We are not thinking about the promote. On the
court, if we are winning, we don't think about Kiefer, whatever , the new generation, New
Balls. You think about your ranking. I don't want to think about anybody. That's my job. I
want to be No. 1. I don't think about Roger Federer or Nicolas Kiefer when I play against
Rusedski. "I'm part of it, I'm proud of it." No. Everybody thinks about
themselves, because life is tough. If you don't think about you, nobody will think about
you. You have to think about yourself on the court, about your life, about what are you
doing. If you have opportunity to be No. 1, you have to do this. Doesn't matter New Balls,
Old Balls, Middle Balls. Just be No. 1, that's it. Doesn't matter if you are part of this
campaign. 

Q. Do you think at the time now there is a change of generations?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, change of generation. I don't want to, because the old balls will
get upset. I think it's not nice to say that we're the new generation because we have
still the guys like Patrick Rafter, all these guys, 28, 27. They're going to play four
years more, for sure, maybe more. New guys coming, but nobody's going. More competition
going to be there. More new guys are going to come, and they will try to look for their
places in the Top 20. But it's not going to be change, the new game, old, they left, no.
It's going to be more new guys coming in, then is going to be tough

End of FastScriptsâ¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT