PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 23, 1998
Butch Buchholz
Mike Davies
Ron Shaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKE DAVIES: This is a state of the union situation, a wrap-up of the end of the
tournament. Maybe I will just start it off for a couple of things that we noted about the
event this year. As you know, we lost -- we had one less session this year than last year.
We decided to play the one session on Saturday instead of two sessions on Saturday. We
thought this would -- could be a better situation for the players. We found out that
players playing in and winning on Saturday night rarely, rarely win the final, sort of --
it is not as fair for the guy playing late Saturday night. So we decided to go with one
session on Saturday afternoon, so therefore we had one less session than last year. We
also obviously lost three out of the four first sessions as far as the rain was concerned
so we got hurt there. Overall, the ticket sales were 15.5% up over last year. Retail was
up and program sales were up, et cetera and concessions were up correspondingly, which is
natural. I see that we have got a note here from Lauren that says that only two
tournaments in 55 tournaments so far this year got the No. 1 and 2 seeds into the final,
so I guess we certainly didn't break that record. And that there were two World Series
events -- two of them were a 32-player draw, Split and Croatia. The three other
championship events in the US, of the three of the championship series events, we have
outdrawn them from an attendance point of view, we outdrew all three of those. We don't
have the results in Indianapolis at this stage. I just want to emphasize obviously that we
are looking forward to next week to a women's event. We have got a 4 p.m. start. We have
got a great draw card, but I guess this is a wrap-up of this event. We are obviously a
little disappointed that we lost three seeds in one day. But as I said before, this isn't
a movie script. This isn't a novel. This is live. This is real stuff. And we can't write
the scripts for these guys. That is what makes sport so intriguing and fascinating is that
there are upsets. I wish the upsets had come at some other guy's tournament rather than
ours, but there you are. So Butch, anything to add. 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: Nothing, Mike you said it all very well. Any questions and we will try
to answer them the best we can. 
 RON SHAW: I will just say as title sponsor that we thought that we would be working
with two great champions and great businessmen when we convinced Butch and Mike to come
here, we have absolutely no regrets. This has truly been everything that they have
promised, plus. These guys deliver and they mean business with what they say. I have joked
with some of you during the week, we were trying to relay to you about when I had asked
Butch at one point, you know, why can't we get somebody like Pete Sampras and I was
telling Brian earlier that that might be the same as saying: Why can't we get Barbra
Streisand to come and sing at the Schubert theater Downtown. It seems so unlikely that
that would happen and yet Butch went to work and he made that happen. I figured I had
nothing to lose; let us talk about the ladies. Then they made the ladies happy. My
attitude representing my company is that we have our name on that which is a very
prestigious event and we are very proud that we did. Do we feel the disappointment about
what happened the other day? Of course. I think I would have bet my home at some point
that you wouldn't lose the top three seeds in a 7-hour period in one day. But it is
business. This is a business that Butch is running here. Our investment in this was a
business investment and I would love to tell you that every investment, both corporately
and personally, that I have ever made was a winner. That is not in the cards. It was just
a stroke of bad luck. We are not running away. And as long as Butch and Mike want to be
here, we'd like to help keep the Pilot name right up on top along with them. 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: Thank you. 
 MIKE DAVIES: Thanks, Ron. 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: That is good for tennis what Ron just said. We can't function without
title sponsors and there are title sponsors and there are title sponsors. We have one very
special title sponsor. He is obviously, from his corporation point of view, is committed,
but also personally. He is here everyday. He got couple of shades darker sitting in that
sun, but it is a pleasure to work with Ron and his people, believe us.  
 RON SHAW: Some of the explanation for that, by the way, I think most of you people know
that the typical fan outside really doesn't understand what it is that Butch and Mike do
as the owners of this tournament versus what we do as the sponsor. They get it all mixed
up because fortunately for us, the Pilot name is every time you turn around out here on
these grounds you see the name of our company, so they think that we own it all. I have
had some serious suggestions and recommendations this week I have had some of the funniest
things come my way, but things that just, you know, we have nothing to do with. But
because of that, that is one of the reasons when Butch says I am here, we feel an
obligation to be here. If our name is up there and because of that confusion if somebody
wants to talk, I'd like to make myself available and be accessible to them. So it is just
nice to walk around and have these people say thank you as we -- when we all walked off
the court today there was a little bunch of people right there over the tunnel, as we were
walking through they said Mr. Shaw, Mr. Shaw. I looked up, they were all going like this
(indicating thumbs up) saying: Thank you, thank you for bringing this to Connecticut. That
is all they wanted to say. There wasn't a human being in that bunch that I know. It is
just people who appreciate what we were doing. That is one of the reasons that we come out
here everyday. I think we have that obligation to represent our company that way. Any
questions at all? 
 
Q. What is your guy's reaction to Ivanisevic up in the umpire's chair as you are trying
to wrap this thing up with the closing ceremonies and he is up there during the first few
minutes of that?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: Actually he went up there while it was going on, you know, you know -
Goran. 
 MIKE DAVIES: It is innocent. 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: He wasn't making fun or anything like that. 
 MIKE DAVIES: It is nice. It is nice to see the human touch and, you know, I think the
fans liked it. Everybody wants to -- I think the point was let me see the line calls from
up here. I think the fans like that. It is the usual thing. If we didn't have umpires in
all sports to get at, there wouldn't be any fun in sports. Would there? So.... 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I have seen some ceremonies where the guys didn't stay. They walked
out. So I don't think this was -- I think this was a positive after they have lost.  
 
Q. Were you pleased with attendance or disappointed?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I thought we would have -- were a little unlucky first three days or
first two days we had rain. Obviously I think Pete and Pat and Korda make a difference. It
is one of those -- you don't know how many people you would have had Friday night if you
had the repeat of the Wimbledon final between Goran and Sampras. So I mean, that is every
tournament director's dream to have something like that. So you can sit there and say
"what if", but as Mike said, this is life and that is the risk that you take in
doing this. We know this when we go in. We know we are going to have some rain; you know
you are going to have some upsets. You know that. 
 
Q. Did the tournament make the progression from Year 1 to this year that you wanted to
see whether it is in sales of boxes or whether it is an overall attendance or perception?
 
 BUTCH BUCCHOLZ: Perception for sure. You can clearly tell when you walk out there and
talk to people that they are happier and that they feel good about it. That there is --
they are regaining or -- regaining is the wrong word. Gaining some trust in the event. I
think it is going to take some time still in terms of sponsorships. I think that this year
there will a good feeling, there will be a lot of talk about it in the community. We lost,
believe it or not, after last year's tournament 240 boxes did not renew and we have got
all those back. In a two year period we lost over 500 boxes. I do not know of any
tournament that has ever done that. Now we have got to go back and get those. So I think
we still have a lot of work to do. But I think -- I think that there has been great
progress in terms of the perception and yes, we did get some more sponsors. We picked up
and what I am hearing is everybody has had a good time. So it takes a few years for these
things to catch up. Good telecast today. Tennis was good. I think one of the decisions we
made not to play Saturday night helped in the -- and the decision was that we believe
there would be a better product out there if those guys had a good night sleep as opposed
to having them play a long match on a Saturday night, come back, you know, less than 12
hours in some cases and try to play tennis. You end up with a flat final. So I think that
decision was good. I think that Goran got back into it in the second set and if he had
finished a late match last night, might not have been able to dig deep enough. I think
that is a decision that long-term will help us. I think it also, the word will get in the
locker room, these guys aren't just, you know, out grabbing the money that they thought
about what our finals going to be like. 
 
Q. What did that cost you financially, if you can estimate it lose that extra session?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: It is hard to say. People have come on -- you never know what the
walkup is going to be. You have got your advance ticket sales which are your boxes and
series tickets and that depends a great deal on who played. But from what we did a year
ago, it wasn't a lot. 
 MIKE DAVIES: Don't forget the Champ Beenie Bear, I know more about Beenie Bears than I
have ever wanted to know about them in the last couple of days. Champ is going to be given
out to the first 2,500 that come through the gate on Monday for the opening ceremony of
the women's event. 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: What time is the opening ceremony? 
 MIKE DAVIES: Approximately 6:45, 7 o'clock after the second match. 
 RON SHAW: Question for you because it was asked of me in the stands. Somebody came and
said, about the Beenie Bear, is it going to be given out at the turnstile versus those
people who have gold parking, do they have a chance to get one? I couldn't answer the
question. 
 JACKIE BACA: Giving it out in two locations at -- after the Gold Lot. 
 RON SHAW: As well as up -- okay. 
 MIKE DAVIES: We have got a good draw tomorrow, Butch. 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I think we have done well with the women's field. We have really have. 
 MIKE DAVIES: Done very well. This is not a Tier II event, women's event. This is like a
Tier I event with the women's draw. When we had the 38th woman in the world qualifying up
there, you figured that if you got to be 38th player in the world you could probably get
into a tournament, right? Not at the Pilot Pen, Ron. Can't do that. 
 
Q. You have been around the game one or two years here. And seen been involved in
changes things like that. You see a match like this today, where the calls all go against
-- it seemed like they all went one way against the one player. And the players complain
about the linesman. They complain about the chair umpire, whatever. And that happens, I am
sure, at other events too. Is there anything really that can be done or has it ever been
looked at to bring more technology into making line calls a little fairer or whatever
because I mean, there is a human error side of it here. Maybe that is part of the beauty
of tennis that there is still that human part of it.
 
 MIKE DAVIES: There are two sides to it. One, whether you go into a completely
electronics situation and 25 years ago in the WCT Finals in Dallas I put electronic lines
on all the courts and after an hour when we had a thunderstorm and the lightning struck,
all those lines were acting up so that nobody knew what the hell was happening. And we had
to switch them all off and put linesmen back there. And since then, they have worked on,
you know, various systems to try to get it to be perfect. They may have got to a point
where they have perfected it to, you know, a pretty good degree. But the expense and the
cost of building into tennis courts and the balls and whether there be sensors in the
balls and all that sort of thing is not the cheapest thing in the world for every
tournament in the world. And then the other thing you get down to is: Do you really want
to have it like that? Do you really want to get rid of all the linesmen and the umpires
and the human element there? I would venture to guess that out of the number of bad calls,
quote, that are bad calls out there today, I would say that probably half of them were not
bad calls if you could put a television camera, slow-mo on every one of those lines and
check that ball out. It is quite amazing what the difference looking from a different
angle makes to a tennis ball. If you look at it from down-the-line, you see -- the only
way that you can really see it accurately; if you look at it from this side, it is totally
different. You could put a ball four, five inches away from the line and just leave it on
the line and go over there and ask somebody whether that ball is on the line or out. They
think it was on the line from over there. So the perception from people, especially if
they are not sitting on that line, is generally wrong. So yes there are bad calls. There
are bad calls, there are good calls. But a lot of the time the player obviously wants the
ball to be in or wants the ball to be good more than it actually is. So, I mean, it is --
It hasn't changed in 100 years. And it will just go on. I am not sure whether I am that
interested in having perfect line calls, frankly. Butch feels differently because he
smashes rackets when he used to play he used to really -- 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: In the old days they used to get the linesmen out of the stands. They
were not professionals. Now we have professional people. But I do think that when we added
the profession people to the Tour and it is great. I think we should have given gotten rid
of the overrule rule. And they did it. That rule was put in when you had amateur people
doing this. And I think it is not good for tennis because I think what it has done it has
made the player start to question line calls all the time, going to the umpire, and
appealing. Did you say that; did you say this; why didn't you do this - I think it just
hurts the presentation of the sport. And I am not sure -- But I mean, I saw a call today
that got overruled. And I am not sure it was in the best position to call it. And the idea
of the overrule was that this is a glaring error where one is just so obvious. That is
what the overrule is for. I was part of the committee that did that. Now, they are getting
down to the point where Rafter serves a serve on matchpoint in Cincinnati, linesman calls
it out, Pete doesn't play the ball, and the umpire calls it good- game set and match. As
long as I have been in this game I have never heard of that happening. So are they going a
little too far? When Mike and I were playing, what the chair used to we the chair umpire
would go to the lines person and say: Would you yield to the chair. That was a signal to
that guy that he screwed up. He would say: I yield to the chair. 
 MIKE DAVIES: The old rule was that the umpire could not overrule a linesman. Could not
overrule a linesman. 
 
Q. Just to change gears a little bit here, obviously a strong field is important at any
tournament, but how important is it this year with it being a first year for the women's
event for the growth of this event?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I think it is very important. I think it was critical that we had a
strong men's field. I think it is critical that we have a strong women's field. What we
are trying to do here is really change the perception of this event. And the more marquis
names you have clearly is going to attract more attention, you know, locally, statewide,
and hopefully nationally an internationally. 
 
Q. What do you think is the perception of this event?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I believe that the perception is the ship is starting to turn. I saw a
lot of people in the box holder's tent and saying, you know, this is really fun; we are
having a good time. Matches were good. They talked about Friday night. Friday night was a
great match. I think people had a good time. That is -- we are in the entertainment
business. That is what we are supposed to do - entertain people and treat them well. 
 
Q. Excited about the women?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I am very excited about the women. All of you have told us how good the
SNET was, the exhibition thing with Martina, so we are optimistic. I heard there were
great crowds and I know they weren't charging a lot, and I know that Connecticut responds
to women's sports, especially through the basketball, so yeah, I think any of the seeds
get through I think people will respond. 
 
Q. Do you feel that the Krajicek/Henman match brought the energy back to the
tournament; it came right after you lost the three seeds and the rain and --
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: Yeah. But things go like this. (Indicating up and down) It went right
up. 
 MIKE DAVIES: I thought it was very interesting because I talked to a friend of mine in
London, and the match had been played and they were tape-delaying it over there on
Eurosport. She told me that she was getting ready to watch the Henman match at five
o'clock. It was coming on at five o'clock there. So I said: Oh, well, you want me to tell
you the result and she said: Well, did he get to the semifinal. I said: Well do you want
me to tell you the result or not. Well, I don't know. So anyway, I didn't. I got a call
back the next morning saying what an unbelievable match. I mean, obviously for the British
it was watching Henman play that and having eight matchpoints, they thought it was a
fabulous match. They sort of appreciated that kind of tennis and that kind of intensity
that those two guys played with. 
 RON SHAW: A lot of these typical fans who will stop us said to me people who had been
coming here since this stadium was built that that was no doubt the best, the best tennis
that has ever been played on this court. That is the way the local people feel about it.
They really do. 
 MIKE DAVIES: Terrific match. 
 RON SHAW: It was exciting. 
 MIKE DAVIES: It takes British people to bring -- (laughter). 
 
Q. What do you think Sampras' early exit will do with the prospect of getting him back
next year?
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: Unless I heard him wrong, he said he was coming back. 
 RON SHAW: He said it.  
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I heard that. Did you guys hear that? 
 
Q. He didn't say "next year." He said he will come back.
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: To play golf? I think Pete will be back. He is an athlete. He is a
competitor. He doesn't want to leave that -- doesn't want to leave New Haven that way. 
 
Q. Does it bother you that some people really thought that he tanked it; that he just
came showed up and left? There has been a lot of talk.
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: I don't think Pete did that. My analysis of it is that when you tank a
match and I know when somebody is tanking a match because they have got an airplane that
they have already made reservations and they have got plans the next day and they are
gone. And he did not do that. Did he have anything -- any gas in the tank to get him out
of the trouble he was in? No. And -- But I think that is more of a middle state that he is
in about his career and tennis and what he is doing and Cincinnati and he just -- he is in
a funk. I think he is tired. He has been doing this for ten years. He just -- it just
reminds me of a tennis player that is tired. Chris Evert went through it. McEnroe went
through it. Doing this for ten years, it is hard. It is not that easy. 
 
Q. Obviously you don't want to root against anybody in the women's tournament, but like
to have the players who play Novotna and Davenport and Graf early on not play the match of
their lives.
 
 BUTCH BUCHHOLZ: That will help, but again -- I can honestly say this with credibility
that the tennis that was played today, person buys a ticket and comes to a tennis
tournament the product that they see today is the best our sport has ever produced. And
there is just so many good tennis players which is really why you have to look at what
Pete has accomplished and knowing that that even ten years ago guys were really looking at
what was going on in the quarterfinals, who was in their half, you know, maybe start to
look at the 16s. I mean, you have to look in the first round now and be scared to death
that somebody is going to knock you off. They are just sitting there waiting for a Sampras
scalp, an Agassi scalp. That is how these young guys make their reputations. Would anybody
have thought that Karol Kucera would win this tennis tournament? Most of us probably
haven't heard of him. He is a really good tennis player. He is going to do well at the US
Open. He is going to do really well at the US Open. He is going to do big damage to
somebody because he is a good tennis player. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT