NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 5, 2000
Claude Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Larry, obviously like any coach, has had to make decisions during the Playoffs.
(inaudible) -- how much do you accept a decision you maybe won't agree with when it is
coming from a guy like Larry who you all seem to have so much respect for and confidence
in?

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: Well, this is the Playoffs and now the Stanley Cup Finals. Coaches make
decisions, and not because they personally like using some players more than others, but
you are not going to be at your best every night. And he's got to go with the guys that
are going better than others, and he has got to use certain players in certain situations.
On certain nights you need a little more offense, you are going to use certain offensive
players more than others. If you are trying to defend the lead, then you are going to be
using your guys that are a little bit more maybe reliable defensively. Those are tough
decisions for any coaches to make, but I think everybody accepts them, and guys are
willing to sacrifice for the team.

Q. Can you talk about Marty, the way he bounced back in Game 3? If he let's up a
questionable goal, people will criticize and get on him a little bit and he played a super
game in Game 3.....

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: He has done that on many occasions. Marty is pretty easy going quiet
guy, but whenever the pressure is on, whenever he is single pointed at to be the man not
putting out or whatever - not that anyone thought that he didn't put out as far as I am
concerned we could have won both first games - but there were some bad breaks, you know,
he came really big for us, especially in the Philly series in Game 5 and 6 and 7. He did
the same thing for us in Game 3 here, played a great game.

Q. What do you have to do tonight that you did in Game 3 to lock the victory up and get
back to New Jersey 3-1?

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: We just got to worry about tonight. I think everybody understands what
it means to us and what kind of position we can be put in. But we have been on the other
side too where we were down 3-is and came back, so we are not going to feel comfortable
until we put ourselves in the position of winning the Cup and when it is all over and done
you can relax. But until then, you just have to plug away. You have to really focus and be
prepared for every game.

Q. You guys have offensively kind of lived and died with the first line. Second game
they weren't so good, you didn't. What do guys like you Randy, Bobby have to do tonight to
help your team out?

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: I think people like look at the players that are going and then look at
the players that are not going or the ones that have chipped in or not chipped in, but it
goes like that. In many Playoffs that I have been involved in, I was the Guy shining,
scoring the goals and others were questioned why they weren't. But bottom line is when you
win, it doesn't really matter who gets it done. We all understand that the more depth you
have, the more players you have, the better it is. Right now I don't think myself or any
other guys that are supposed to are scoring or chipping in more -- are concerned about
winning the game. Whether the Arnott line does it tonight or whether our line chips in, we
have been assigned different roles and for different reasons, our lines has been matched
up again the other team's top line. Last game we seemed to play against their checking
line so we were, you know, in kind of a weird situation there for a while and then it
changed in the third period. Again, we are just trying to win the game, whoever gets it
done, if none of the forwards score and the defense score, Marty scores, it is all fine by
me. Personal success in the Playoffs is going to be evaluated if you win the Cup, I think
we are all going to be successful. If you don't, whatever numbers you put up yourself is
only good for your only little repertoire and that is it.

Q. I am not trying to jump the gun, but I wonder if you could talk in general about
hockey's tradition of post-series handshakes, how difficult that must be and how that
differentiates this sport from the other major sports?

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: I have always thought it is a great tradition. I think playing the game
that we do and as mean as everyone has to be to one another to be successful, you must
keep that tradition involved in part of the game. I think it is a great way to show
everybody that when it is all over and done after all, everybody is just trying to
accomplish the same goal as winning, trying to do the best and using different ways of,
you know, talent, you might have been given, but all there for the same reason.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT