GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 14, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Got to be one of the most exciting ways to win a tournament?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Of course. I won in L.A. -- no, I won at the Bob Hope by one. And
before that I think my smallest margin has been three or four shots; so I always had a
cushion coming up 18. And this was different with a playoff. I think I was in a playoff
way back, and I lost that time. So this was definitely something new for me. 

Q. The putt on 17, when Davis had made his and you had to make it, even though it was a
fairly short putt, you had to feel that? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, yeah. It definitely got longer. Davis holed a great putt. 17 was a
tough pin today. Three great shots, to have two birdies and one lipout on that hole is
pretty good. I had a pretty easy putt, straight up the hill and put a good stroke on it.

Q. After you missed putt on 12 --

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, the putt on 12 hurt badly. That was not longer than a foot, and I
didn't even consider missing. I just went up to finish it off and it just lipped out. 

Q. When you were walking off 12, going to 13, what were you thinking? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, of course, you're a little bit down, but I still thought I had a
chance if I could make a few more birdies. And all of the sudden I watch the leaderboard
and Davis had dropped and I was right back in it.

Q. Were you watching the leaderboard all day?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, because it was so close all the time. We saw Tiger coming up and
going for a run for it. But apart from that, it just seemed like it was between me and
Phil and Davis all day, and I'm just happy to come out on top.

Q. (Inaudible)?

JESPER PARNEVIK: On 18, definitely yeah. I hit a good putt, but when it missed, I
definitely thought Davis was going to make it. It's a tough putt. There's a lot of grain
on that putt and it breaks, hard. 

Q. How about what it means to win Mr. Nelson's tournament?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It's unbelievable, he goes out to -- I don't know how many tournaments
a year, talks to us, invites us here. What he has done this year, he's been on the first
tee every day and sitting on the 18th hole every day in 100-degree weather. It's pretty
impressive. 

Q. Not a bad payday, I guess?

JESPER PARNEVIK: It's been a great year so far. I love it. 

Q. How do you think Mr. Nelson would like your pants?

JESPER PARNEVIK: I think he would look good in my pants. 

Q. Just having your family here on Mother'S Day and your children here on Mother's Day,
is that special?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, very special. I just was on my way out of here to my parents in
Sweden, but I think just missed the flight. 

Q. Do they celebrate Mother's Day in Sweden?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Yes, they do. 

Q. How does this set you up for the rest of the year with the Open coming up? 

JESPER PARNEVIK: Well, of course, I look forward to the Open. The Open is probably one
of the best venues where I would have a chance, I would say, at Pebble Beach, because
usually it's just a straight hitter's U.S. Open where one driver can be a little bit off
sometimes. So I'm really looking forward to Pebble Beach where it's going to be more like
a links-type golf course, which I usually play very well in the British Open. So I'm
looking forward to that one.

Q. Coming in today, did you think you had a chance?

JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, definitely. When you only have two or three guys a few shots ahead
of you, anything can happen, it's a little bit different story if it was 20 guys with
three shots ahead of you, but with two guys, if you play well, you should have a good
chance.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT