GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 13, 2000
Jesper Parnevik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: It was a tough day, obviously. Looking at the scoring, nobody did
pretty much anything except for a few guys in the morning. I think this wind we had today
was much tougher than we had the first few days. It was absolute opposite wind, and I
think this course plays a lot tougher this way. You know, the first nine holes are playing
real tough, I think. Terrible bogey on 1. Perfect drive, wedge in. I don't know what I
did. I kind of quit on a wedge a little bit, ended up right; hit a good chip and missed a
4-footer for par. So it was not the ideal start, but I just played solid after that. Tried
to grind -- I looked at the scoreboard, saw that nobody did anything. So I kind of
realized that everybody had a tough time out there, and I just, you know tried to give
myself chances to maybe get to maybe 7- , 8- , 9-under. I had a few chances in the end,
but I just misread a few of the putts. I'm still pleased with where I am. I haven't played
for a few weeks, and was 3-over after six holes the first day. So it's nice to only have
two guys in front of you. When it's that way, it seems like anyone can win. It's different
when you have ten guys, you know, three or four shots ahead of you. Then you know you've
got to shoot a really low score. Tomorrow, if they just play decent, a few under might win
it.  
 
Q. If the weather is like this, do you go out thinking birdies to make up this gap or
just keep level and expect some mistakes from them?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I usually always play fairly aggressively, so I'm going to keep doing
that. I'm not going to take stupid risks. I think in the beginning, just see what
everybody is doing. If it's playing like today, it seems like nobody is going to do
anything on the front nine, really, because it's playing very hard. I mean, yesterday we
hit wedges in to No. 2; today I hit 5-wood. So it's a big difference. Of course, a lot of
things can happen the last five holes downwind, especially 16. Yesterday, we couldn't
reach 16, and today I had 7-iron into 16. So, you know, if the same wind, a lot of things
could happen coming down the stretch tomorrow. 
 
Q. So you hit 5-wood to No. 3 on your first round?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: 2nd hole, yeah -- no, 3rd hole, yeah. 3rd hole, I had a wedge in there
yesterday and I had a 5-wood in there today.  
 
Q. Jesper, does this kind of get your adrenaline going a little bit more, to see all
the great players on the leaderboard and Tiger is still around, Davis, Duval and Garcia?
Does that get you a little bit more excited going into a final round knowing you're in the
heat of the battle?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Definitely. If you're up there, of course, you're more, how should I
say, pumped up, to tee it off. I'd much rather be where I am now than back of the pack
trying to make a decent check. Of course, they have a great field this week. Probably one
of the best fields all year. You know, you don't really think about who is up there and
who is doing what. It's more where you are in the tournament. If you have a chance to win,
I think you're pretty excited, whoever is playing.  
 
Q. If the lead is 10-under, how far back is someone in it? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, I'd say if it's playing like today and you go out and shoot like
Hank Kuehne did today, you can definitely win. So anyone who is 3- , 4-, 5-under has a
chance to win it. You know, it's going to take a very, very good round if the wind stays
the same to shoot those scores, because the greens were getting very firm in the end. 
 
Q. Did the wind get more and more as the day went along or was it just consistent?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I think it got up more and more. I don't know why, but it felt
that way. It seemed like the wind affected the ball much more the longer the round went.
Like I said, I had 195 pin on 15 and I hit an 8-iron, you know, just past, pin-high. But
it was not blowing nearly as much as the first day, but it still seemed like this
direction of the wind makes it more tricky.  
 
Q. As a lowball hitter, do you want it to blow?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Oh, I love it when it blows, yeah. (Laughs). I would say that's one of
my strong suits, to be able to keep the ball down, shape it both ways. You know. If it
blows left-to-right I can hook it in there. If it's the other way, I can hold it pretty
much in, anyway, which you have to do when the wind blows hard. Because when the greens
are starting to get firm, if you start hitting wind-to-wind the ball is going to go 30
feet, 40 feet sideways as soon as it hits the green, anyway. 
 
Q. Did you hit any bizarre British-Open-like shots in the first round or today?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I hit a little bit like that on No. 12, the long one, dogleg-right.
Hit a little 6-iron that way. The wind was blowing pretty long left-to-right into it, and
the pin was on the right-hand side, and you just didn't want anything to get up in the air
and shoot to the right. Aim a little right of the pin and hit a low, slinging hook.  
 
Q. Can you talk about 14, was it as hard of a shot in as it looked like?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I didn't want to be where I was, of course. I had 170 pin behind
that tree, and I was just worried that I couldn't get it up fast enough to get it over the
tree. So, you know, I took a 9-iron and hit it fairly hard, I'd have to say, but just
tried to get it up as quick as I could, and when it cleared the tree I was happy. When it
pitched two feet from the hole, that was a great bonus. 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I hit driver, 7-iron. Just tried to bounce it in the upslope short of
the pin, and it stayed just on the fringe short of the green, and I 2-putted from there.
5, I had a good 7-iron in there about 12 feet.  
 
Q. Was it usual for you to take as much time off as you did, and what did you do? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I like my time off. I had some friends in from Sweden. It was five of
us, we went to the Bahamas for five days, boating over there, which was a lot of fun. And
then we just played golf, fished, relaxed the other week. So I had a great time. I usually
try to do that once or twice a year, bring my friends from Sweden over, just to keep the
ties close. Because now I'm going to spend so much time over here, I don't see them very
often.  
 
Q. Boyhood? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. High school-type.  
 
Q. You haven't played this event the last couple years. Did you play it just because
you haven't played for a while, or did you have other reasons for playing this year?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No, it just worked out great with my schedule. I played like four or
five in a row up until Greensboro there; so it was just perfect to take two weeks off and
come here. And then I go to Germany next week; so I thought three weeks before I went to
Germany was a little too much. So great field this week. I wanted to come here. I always
enjoyed playing here. I don't know when my last -- I think Michael Pernfors caddied for me
last time I was here, and it was extremely hot, I remember.  
 
Q. Those five Swedish buddies, any of them as creative or eccentric was you? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No. They are fairly normal guys.  
 
Q. Do you get homesick much? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, I do. Especially now, around the summertime when I know how much
fun it would be to be in Stockholm. I mean, Stockholm is a great city in the summertime,
because all the Swedes just go crazy because the sun is out, finally. (Laughter.) It's a
lot of fun. Stockholm is on the water. Summer is a lot of fun. I'm looking forward to
going there. I thought about actually going there for one day tomorrow, but it looks like
I won't be able to catch a flight. Usually, I spend the summer -- well, between U.S. Open
and PGA in Sweden.  
 
Q. Will you do that this year?
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah. Of course, I play a few events on the European Tour at the same
time. It's always nice to come back. My parents, you know, still live in Sweden and all my
friends, like I said.  
 
Q. You touched on the Open just a little bit, how do you feel like your game will work
out, will translate to Pebble this year? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: I'm looking forward to Pebble. I think it's going to suit my game more
than any other U.S.-Open-type golf course, because usually it's been just a
straight-hitter's tournament. If you hit it in the rough, you just have to chop out and
make bogey. They set up Pinehurst really nicely last year, I thought, where you could
actually advance it out of the rough. And Pebble, Beach the way I hear, it's going to be
more length than when we played in February, which is usually wet. You're going to see a
little bit of running-type conditions, and that's the type of golf I like.  
 
Q. Were you there in '92? 
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: No.  
 
Q. Apparently they are going to keep the rough, top it at three inches to make it more
playable in the wind.
 
 JESPER PARNEVIK: Yeah, like I said, I mean, I look forward to that one more than other
U.S. Opens where -- you know, driving hasn't always been my strong suit. So, you know, I
have to play very defensively in the U.S. Opens, just to get around.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT