NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 24, 2000
Ron Hainsey
Marcel Hossa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)

MARCEL HOSSA: I'm pretty happy. It's kind of cool. I'm really close to my brother, and
I don't know what to say. I'm happy.

Q. What do you know about the Montreal tradition in hockey, the history and what it
means?

MARCEL HOSSA: I know that Montreal won like 24 Stanley Cups, so I will be surprised if
we win next season.

Q. How do you feel now that you've been drafted?

MARCEL HOSSA: Well, I think it's for every guy a Draft is a good feeling. So I'm very
happy.

Q. Would you compare yourself with another hockey player?

MARCEL HOSSA: Well, I think we are a little bit different. Like Marion is scoring much,
and I am like play-maker and all. But I always try what he's doing right now.
...(Inaudible).

Q. You've learned to speak English. Do you know how to speak French?

MARCEL HOSSA: Well, I know nothing about the French, so... But I will be learning it.

Q. First reaction about being picked?

RON HAINSEY: I was really excited, you know, I think we had a lot of meetings with them
before the Draft, and, you know, obviously Montreal is a great city, hockey tradition,
winning tradition, so I was really excited.

Q. ...(Inaudible).

RON HAINSEY: Well, you know, last year during my whole year, I've been playing a lot of
penalty, powerplay, I've played in all situations. I played a lot this year, about 30
minutes a night as a freshman, so that was real good experience-wise. I like to think I
can do everything pretty well and contribute in a lot of different ways.

Q. Do you expect to go back to Lowell next year?

RON HAINSEY: Well, right now I'm committed to going back to Lowell. That's the plan.
Obviously, talking with the team, if things change, if they think something else will be
better... But right now that's the plan.

Q. You know the situation with Mike van Ryn who went and played junior hockey and then
became a free agent. Is that something you and your agent have considered?

RON HAINSEY: What did he say? I heard the decision Friday morning. Everybody left.
People were talking about it, asking whether it would affect us as Calgary players. It's
nothing I would ever do. It's a loyalty thing to the team that takes you in the first
round, especially if they believe in you that much. I don't know the situation he was in
and what reasons he did it for, so I can't comment on why he did it or whether it was
right or wrong. Personally, it wouldn't be something I would ever really consider doing.
So my agent advisor is Matt Gater (ph).

Q. What role do you think the Canadiens expect you to have when you eventually go?

RON HAINSEY: I think it will be the same I have now, being able to quarterback a
powerplay; at the same time, being pretty solid defensively as far as penalties. I feel I
could be a good all-around defensive player.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT