BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 15, 2000
Arnold Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Okay, well, good afternoon. I can remember when this area was less than
one-fourth the size it is today, which certainly shows some progress. As far as the
tournament, the golf course, I don't think that it's ever been better. The golf course is
in top condition. We're working on the greens. We are not going to cut them as close as we
might. However, we are going to roll them and we think that that will get them down to the
speed that we want. In years past, we cut them, I think, a little too close and lost some
of the speed in them and that is not satisfactory. This year, we're going to keep them
just a little longer in the cut and hopefully speed them up by the rolling that we do on
the top. Overall, the rough is also better than it's ever been. It's thicker, and it will
be a challenge. If you get in it, it will be tough. As far as any new things we've done to
the golf course, we added a tee at 6, which will make the guys go over water, initially,
all the way. And we've added another tee at 11, which will make 11 play just a little bit
longer, not a great deal. And we flattened the tee at 12 on the back a couple yards there;
and a couple yards at 17, which is not significant at all and made that tee larger. And
that's really all the changes that we've made in the golf course.  
 
Q. How about the changes in your flexibility in the last couple of weeks, you seem to
be a little bit more flexible as you're going through the ball? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, the question about my flexibility, that's a personal thing and it
really doesn't amount to anything except that I've been stretching and doing a pretty
rigorous stretching program and only trying to increase my range of motion body-wise. I
hope that makes a difference. I'm doing it, hopefully, to hit the ball a little further
and to be able to play golf courses like Bay Hill.  
 
Q. I guess this is the longest course you play all year, isn't it? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, I guess it's just about as long as any. Laurel Valley is my club
in Pennsylvania, it's longer. But on The SENIOR TOUR, 6,600 yards, basically. Laurel is
7,200 and we're close to that here now if we play the middle to the back tees. 
 
Q. At the beginning of the year at the Bob Hope, you were questioning if you would even
play here this year. What changed your mind? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, that's a good question. There was some question whether I would
play in my own mind, simply because my game, number one, is not good enough; and number
two, I'm not playing that well on The SENIOR TOUR. So I just figured that it probably
deserved some thought as to whether I would play. My people here sort of put me to the
task and insisted that I really should play and I think that's probably the bottom line as
to why I'm playing.  
 
Q. Are you glad to be playing? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Am I glad I'm playing? Well, I'm looking forward to playing with Colin
Montgomerie. I haven't played with him, and I will enjoy that. Yeah, I'm glad I'm playing.
I just hope that I can play a little better than I have in the past -- recent years.  
 
Q. Did you request to play with Colin or did Colin request to play with you? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, I suggested if it worked out (Laughter.) I didn't put any pressure
on. (Laughter.) And I would like to play with Colin.  
 
Q. Why did you want to play with Colin? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: It wasn't -- it wasn't totally -- I wasn't the only one involved, how's
that. I was appreciative of the fact that he's coming to play, and that's how it came up.  
 
Q. The policy boards meeting on the Casey Martin case today, do you have an opinion on
whether the TOUR should pursue the appeal to the Supreme Court? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: I don't have an opinion. I think all of you know how I feel about golf
carts and I'm not going to get into that. That's a long spiel. We are abiding by the law
and the rules of the game and that's what we'll do.  
 
Q. Are you amazed at how young some of these guys are at this level, aside from Tiger,
Sergio, Aaron Baddeley, does it amaze you how young guys are playing at such a high level?

 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, of course I think it's not amazing to me. I think the thing that
we're seeing happening on the TOUR and it's been in the process of happening over a long
period of years, and that is that these people are -- and they have to be in absolutely
top physical condition to play, number one, and to be competitive, number two. There's not
-- I think the golfers that are doing very well on the TOUR generally are guys that are --
have a physical training program or building themselves into a condition that is
comparable to any athlete in any sport, and maybe even higher level of competitiveness is
coming out of that conditioning that they are doing, whether it be Tiger Woods or Duval,
David Duval or who it might be. And I think that that is the trend. It's going to be a
trend that is going to be part of golf as much as it is any sport in the world, and, of
course, knowing golfers as I do, they will probably go to the extreme physically to play
better golf.  
 
Q. When you started on the TOUR, Arnold, did anybody work out? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Oh, there were a few. I did a little in the early days. I ran and I did
weights -- not weights, physical weights, but chin myself and things like that because
that was a family ritual kind of to do those things. But I would say to answer your
question generally, very, very few. Their routine was probably having a beer after a round
of golf more than it was doing physical exercise and that stuff. It was rare. Of course
yeah, you did have a guy like Stranahan who really was a physical -- he worked out from
the first time I ever saw him at Pinehurst in the 40s, late 40s. I remember him checking
into the hotel in Pinehurst and the bellman came out to pick up his bags and couldn't pick
them up, they were full of weights. And that's true. That is a true story. But Stranny
worked out forever. He never stopped and still is doing. It.  
 
Q. We had a group this morning up front here of Tiger and 20--year-old Sergio and
18-year-old Aaron Batteley. Are you amazed at how good players are getting so young these
days? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: That is also a good question. I'm seeing that and it's amazing. I think
the mental attitude of these young players is far more mature than it was 20, 30, 40 years
ago. I think although there were some pretty young, good players in those days, I think
the training that these people get, not just on the golf course or in golf, but in school
and the advanced maturity of these people at young ages is a factor that's startling to
me. They are very seasoned and very poised for the game and that does surprise me a little
bit that they have reached that point at such an early age. 
 
Q. A lot of them seem to have some sort of charisma bypass in the process. Do you think
that's there's a trade-off?
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: What did you call that? A charisma bypass?  
 
Q. The senior guys seem to have a lot more charisma than the younger players?
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: I'm afraid that is the nature of the beast. I think that we're going to
probably see more of that as these kids start training in high school to be golfers and
part of the -- that training is to mind your business, keep your mind on the game and get
your schooling done and then go play golf. And in doing so, they kind of bypass that other
part of what we're talking about. I don't suppose that it's much different than a man
training to be an accountant or a chief executive officer. You know, look at the
personalities you return into in that situation and these people are doing somewhat the
same thing. They are getting themselves hyped up to play golf and nothing from the outside
should interfere, I think that's the case.  
 
Q. Do you think it will hurt the TOUR in the long run? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: You know, I don't know whether it will or not. I suppose that we need
the personalities, we need the variety in personalities. And whether it's going to get to
the point where we're not going to have any personalities we're just going to see guys tee
it up and know them by name and let them go play, I don't think that's going to happen. I
think we'll still have the personalities. These young guys, a lot of them I know -- not a
lot of them I know, I know some of them pretty well and in their own right, they do have
personalities and they are pretty nice guys to talk to. So I'm hopeful that they don't cut
themselves off from that other section of what we've known in golf as being a part of it.  
 
Q. How much do you think Tiger has matured in his three-plus years on tour? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: I think Tiger has done a tremendous job in the last two years, two and a
half years. I think he has started to handle himself a lot better. I think he is handling
himself better with you guys, the press, it appears to me from what you write, and I think
that's a good sign. And I think it will help his -- the bottom line for him, meaning his
golf and his regularity on the TOUR and his game.  
 
Q. It seems, and maybe it's too early to tell, but it seems that his star quality is
transcending golf and maybe perhaps he's becoming the biggest celebrity in all sports. Do
you see that happening? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: I see a possibility that he could -- because golf is such an individual
sport, I see the possibility that he could lap all sports, sort of like tennis or boxing,
it has kind of a special niche that is easier to write about than it is to pick a guy on a
team and say how good he is. So there's a possibility that he could become as well known
as anybody in the world of sports. 
 
Q. Were you surprised to be asked to become a member at Augusta National? Have you
taken advantage of that and gone to the course more often? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, I was pleasantly pleased with being asked to become a member. Have
I taken advantage of it, actually, I haven't played there much more than I did before. I
was there for the First Member'S Party and I enjoyed it very much. I haven't been back
since, only because my schedule and circumstances surrounding me at the time made it
impossible. 
 
Q. Again about Tiger, can you relate to the level of play that he has played at over
the last year or so, for yourself, do you recall what that was like for you? Did you feel
like when you stepped on the tee you were going to win every week, what that feeling was
like for you when you were doing similar things? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: The answer is yes, I did. I felt like I could win every week, and I felt
that if I could get things -- the ball going the way I wanted to and I think every player
has to feel that way if he's going to win. But I didn't tell anybody, I tried to keep it
to myself. But I did -- I had confidence in my game and there was a period of time when I
was astonished that I didn't win more than I did.  
 
Q. Anything that he has done surprised you, even, anything he's done recently, during
that stretch? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Surprise me, I don't think so. I think I've played enough golf with
Tiger that almost anything he does on the golf course he does right now would not surprise
me. I don't know that I've ever seen anyone go through the ball quite the way he does and
with the speed that club head is going through. And just knowing what happened to me at
times when I wasn't playing my best golf, probably has to happen to him a little bit, too,
and that is you just have times when things weren't clicking and body chemistry isn't
working the way it should and you're going to hit some bad shots. I think the guy that
probably did that the best was Byron Nelson and having known Byron for as well as I have
for a lot of years, I've talked to him about it, what happened to him when he was playing
that well, and reading his book and reading what he wrote about the game of golf and the
streak and so on. And the consistency with which he played, and, of course, he admitted
that he had ups and downs on certain periods of time, but he also said that, without much
disagreement, he was sick in his stomach almost every time he went out to play golf before
he teed it up. And that kind of tells you something that the intensity and the -- he was
so high all the time that that kept him being consistent and it happened every time.  
 
Q. Regarding golf equipment and USGA, you probably followed the debate for years about
whether or not the golf balls should be limited, and now Callaway has introduced a driver
in Japan that rockets the ball off the club face so fast that it probably wouldn't make it
past the rules in the U.S.; so they are not selling it here. Could you please restate your
views on whether or not the golf ball should be throttled back so it doesn't go as far or
whether clubs should be treated the same way? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, I'm not familiar with the club you're talking about, but my -- I
suppose my feelings are that the golf ball should be slowed down a little bit. But, you
know, when you think -- and I've been in this conversation on and off for the last few
years about equipment and I haven't really concentrated too much on the legality of a golf
club, whether it be square grooves or springs off the face of the club or what-have-you. I
have looked more at the ball. And when you think about it, and we talk about the golfers
in the United States or the world, probably less than 10%, probably less than 5% of the
golfers in the world have ever looked at a rule book. You've got to think about that. Most
of them don't even know that there is a rule book in existence that tells you what the
specifications off a golf club should be or the specifications of a golf ball should be.
And if you think about that, and let's just say, for an example, there are 50 million
golfers in the United States -- and I have been chairman of the Associates Program which
has changed now to some other name, but there are probably about a million people that are
members, out of 50 million. Now think about that. That means that there are 1 million that
make some effort to know what's going on, join the golf association. But the rest really
don't know. And that is a very significant factor. So when we talk about controlling a
golf ball or controlling a club, you have 40 million out of 50 million golfers that can't
break 80. And all of the sudden, you're telling them that you want to slow down the ball
and you want to take the spring out of a golf club, it's a good thing it isn't a public
company because you'd have problems with it. And that's the trend. So you've got to look
at it a little bit that way, who are we trying to control. Well, we're trying to control
the professionals, and that's basically what you were talking about. I suppose that if I
were on a committee that was to say what to' do, I might, like my friend Charlie Mecham,
said, I might just hand the pros a golf ball and say, "You play this golf ball every
week and let the amateurs that are buying and paying for golf balls and let them play
whatever they want to play." 
 
Q. So two sets of rules would not, to your mind, dilute the game, in other words,
USGA-approved need not be part of a recreational game in a golf ball? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: That's a question I cannot answer. I don't know. I wonder I suppose that
there would be a percentage of people that would want to play with the golf ball the pros
are playing with in the tournaments, and I think that's something that you have to look
at. And a lot of manufacturers certainly think so because they pay the pros a lot of money
to play their equipment, and if you put that into perspective that we're talking about,
they have got a good point.  
 
Q. You'll be making your 46th appearance at Augusta, could you talk about your feelings
going back and how much longer --
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: I have a very definite feeling, to answer your question. I'm going back
for the 46th appearance this year, and I'm looking forward to it very much. And I have
written a note to the powers at Augusta and said that since I am now a member, I'd like to
play the members tees. (Laughter.)  
 
Q. If Tiger Woods came to you at 35, when he was married and had some kids and had a
lot of other pressures that he doesn't have today and there were a lot of other young guns
going after him and his game wasn't what it was today, what kind of advice would you give
to him about going forward? 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: Well, I think that's -- again, what you're suggesting is that he should
quit, or are you?  
 
Q. No. 
 
 ARNOLD PALMER: I think Tiger at this point in time -- when he is 35, I think he'll
still be a factor in winning golf tournaments. So my advice would be to just keep on
working and hitting the ball and enjoying it. Once you stop enjoying it, don't do it. But
if he's enjoying playing and he's competitive at 35, he should be playing and enjoying the
game. You know, I played a lot of golf with Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player, and I saw them
both come up from 19 years old to their present age. And at one point in that whole
scenario of aging and getting on with it, we were playing I think Big Three golf in the
late 60s and they were -- I was a little older than both of them and they were around --
they were getting around 35 years old -- that's the reason I'm bringing up, that was about
their age. And, of course, both of them unconditionally told me by the time they were 40,
45 years old, they would not be playing competitive golf at all, and they would not play
-- and I promise you, if you ask them, they will tell that you, too, right now. But they
are both playing more golf than they have ever played in their life right now and they are
long beyond that age limit. So it's hard to predict what a person's going to do. I think
what Nelson did or Jones did is a very difficult decision to make, particularly if you
love the game.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT