NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Billy Donovan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Billy, if there weren't summer programs for the high school players how would it
have affected a guy like Mike Miller or was he so good he would have been visible anyway?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I tell you, I think there are so many scouting services right now, so
much publicity surrounding my kids, certainly the AAU Programs enable these kids to be
seen. But I think the country is scoured pretty well. Certainly there's guys that maybe
fall through the cracks that end up developing and improving and maybe everybody
overlooked them and they pan out to be a great college player and weren't heavily
recruited coming out. I think Mike had a pretty big reputation even when he was a
sophomore in high school, people knew who he was. Going into his junior year, a lot of
people started making visits to Mitchell, South Dakota, to watch his play. 
 
Q. Billy, last year there were three No. 1 seeds in the Final Four. This year only one.
Do you think this is going to be a trend or is this kind of an abberation? How do you view
the tournament this year?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I think you have to look at it this way. I don't think you can place a
whole lot of emphasis on the seedings. I think Craig Thompson has done a great job.
Carolina, a lot of preseason publications ranked No. 1 in the country. Without question,
top five. To me, them having an 8th seed is not indicative of the type of team they are.
Bill Guthridge has done a great job, they're playing as well as they are. They're gelling,
meshing, playing great basketball. Michigan State, preseason, a lot of publications ranked
No. 1. We were ranked in the Top 10. I think for us, like a Wake Forest, because we were
eliminated early in our conference tournament, we -- obviously there was a lot placed on
the seedings with regards to the conference tournaments; therefore, the seedings may be a
5 for us, which people maybe thought we should have been a 3. Carolina, an 8, probably
could have been a little bit different. But I think that once a tournament starts you can
really throw the seedings out because of the parity in college basketball. I think for
Craig Thompson and the Selection Committee, it's very, very difficult seeding all these
teams. Obviously, Dick Bennett's done a terrific job with his team at Wisconsin. I think
at one point they were 11-10, 10-11 and reeled off a bunch of games. There's so much
parity right now.  
 
Q. Billy, could you talk a little bit about what you took from your career working with
Rick Pitino, and have you talked to him at all this week?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I have not. I heard from him through a fax. I took a lot of things from
him. I think the first thing that comes to mind was obviously his work ethic, his
preparation, preparing for opponents, scouting reports, took from him recruiting. Things
away from basketball, probably his ability of being so successful and still having a
tremendous ability to listen, to be innovative, to be a risk-taker, to create a style of
play that, I think, he wanted all of his assistants to build upon and try to make it
better. I'd say outside of my mother and my father, probably the most influential person
in my life. I think he's someone that taught me that through hard work and a lot of
confidence and dedication and preparation, you can accomplish just about anything. 
 
Q. Billy, how much better is a full-court pressure-style team like yours at the end of
the season versus at the beginning of the season?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: Well, the one thing I would say, and I think for a lot of teams when you
start the season, you're in better shape when the season starts than you are at the end.
There's a fine line, from a coaching standpoint, as you start to get into your conference
play and you start to get into January and February of doing too much, and your team just
fades at the end of the year, at the same point keeping them fresh. I think our guys are
really in great shape. I think they're fresh, I think they're well-conditioned right now.
I would say that right now, for us, in our style of play, most people do not see teams
like us in preparation. And, you know, I remember there was a lot of talk playing Duke
that we resembled Virginia. Well, I've had a chance to see Virginia play Duke on film.
Virginia does not press one bit like we press. It's different. So I think our style of
play is unique. It's different. And there's not a lot of teams out there that play the way
we do. So when you see us for the first time, it can be a little bit difficult and a
little bit different. But I think the one thing about the NCAA Tournament in teams that
advance, it's the system. You hear so much about North Carolina's system, Tom Izzo has his
system in place, Dick Bennett's got his system in place. I think systems and guys buying
into the system is really what enables you to win. I would say probably all the systems in
the Final Four are different and unique. We probably, from our perspective, haven't quite
gone against things like the Carolina system. It's going to be new to us as well. 
 
Q. I wanted to ask you about the importance of imposing what you want to do on
Carolina, or do you feel like you could win a game in the 60s, or would that really make
you nervous about your fate tomorrow if they were able to more or less impose their tempo
on you?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I'm not nervous about a game in the 60s. The one thing you realize if
you're going to play in the 40s and 50s, for the most part it's going to be a close game.
You never hear of a blowout 50 to 20. It doesn't happen. If you're going to play in the
50s and 60s, the game is going to be very, very close. We had a situation like that with
Butler, it was a close basketball game. That's generally what happens. Certainly, when you
get games in the 70s, 80s, 90s, there's much more room for disparity in scores. I think we
can play either way. I think that we can play half-court, we can play full-court. We've
got the ability to do that. I think for us, our style of play is important. That's what
we've done. So I think our shot selection, our ability to be able to score against
Carolina defense enables us to get our press on. I think with our system and our style of
play, people think that we force tempo with offense. We don't force tempo with our
offense; we force it with our defense. Because our offense, by scoring, allows us to
press. So if we come down offensively and take bad rushed shots, that's fewer times we get
a chance to press. So by running your half-court offense, being patient, executing, that
now enables you to press, get tempo going, allows you to trap, be a little bit disruptive
on the defensive end of the floor. 
 
Q. Billy, I'm wondering what of your experiences playing in the Final Four in '87
you've drawn on and tried to relate to your players? I have a fuzzy memory of you getting
sick during that game or something. Can you talk about that?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I probably played like I was sick when we were in the Final Four. I did
not play very well against Syracuse. But, you know, obviously I think the one thing I
realize going through as a player, I think I can understand and relate a little bit to the
emotions that they're going through. This is the first time any of our kids had the
privilege to be part of something so special, the pinnacle of college basketball, it's
different right now. It could be overwhelming. I think the big thing right now is for me,
as a coach, to get them to a point where they're relaxed, they're confident, they go out
there and play fearlessly, they go out and try to win because it can be a situation where
you've got so much time in between games right now where there's a lot of anxiety and
there's a lot of buildup and guys don't sleep well and you get nervous the night before
the game. I think all those emotions are normal. So I'm just trying to draw upon my
experience a little bit, things I went through, the emotions I was feeling the day before
playing in the Final Four. 
 
Q. Billy, Coach Guthridge was in here earlier and said he agreed with a question that
your depth, your style of play reminds him of the Kentucky teams that you were a part of
with Rick. But he also said you've added some stuff, you've subtracted some stuff. How is
-- how are you the same? How are you different?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: Well, the mentality of the system is the same. You want to utilize a
three-point line. You also want to try to defensively take the three-point line out of the
game. You want to try to force a lot of turnovers. But at the same point you want to keep
your turnovers down. Those things have always remained the same in the system. Now what
happens is our personnel, we don't have Antoine Walker, Walter McCarty, Tony Delk, Ron
Mercer and those guys. It's different. So if I was to take every single offensive play we
run and every single thing we did defensively and how we played 100 percent the same way,
I'm doing our basketball team a disservice. Before every season starts, I try to sit down
by myself, with our staff, and figure out what are we going to run offensively to utilize
our personnel to the best of its ability? What do we need to do defensively to maybe
camouflage our weaknesses quickness-wise, size-wise if we go small with our guards. I
think the one thing I learned from Coach Pitino and mentioned earlier, is to take the
system as a whole and to make it better. Certainly I've taken his ability to prepare for
each game, scouting reports, having everything down, going over how you are defending
every screening situation, every action, what you're going to run, all those things. But
I've got to coach my personnel to my personality and put in things that are going to
enable those guys to be successful when they step on the floor. So I think that it is
different. We're not Kentucky of '96 or Kentucky of '93, when they were at the Final Four.
We're just not those teams. We're the University of Florida, plays or utilizes the same
system. For us, it would be similar to going against South Carolina or Tennessee, Jerry
Green, Eddie Fogler, North Carolina disciples, Roy Williams' disciples, they have that
system. There's so many systems that have been handed down. Kevin Stallings, Jerry Green,
Steve Robinson at Florida State, these are all teams we had a chance to play who have
obviously taken a great, great system and to the best of their ability have tried to make
it better. 
 
Q. Billy, could you talk about the learning curve that your freshmen have gone through
this season from the beginning until now, and why is it that so many freshmen are making
such a big impact at this level?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: There's a tremendous learning curve. It's amazing, someone asked me a
question earlier, I answered this, did you think you would get to the Final Four. I said
there was times after games I didn't think we'd ever lose a game the rest of the year.
There was times I thought I don't know if we could win another game. There's obviously an
emotional roller coaster throughout the course of the year, and that's what you have when
you deal with young guys. They have gotten better. They have improved. The reason freshmen
now are able to make impacts is because of the sole reason that we have one senior on our
basketball team. There's just not a lot of juniors and seniors playing college basketball
anymore. And it has opened up a door and an avenue for a lot of freshmen and sophomores to
step in and play. But there are those teams that are junior-, senior-laden teams that
maybe are not quite as talented as some other teams, but because of their experiences they
can overcome maybe that lack of athletic ability, talent, and make it up with their mental
preparation, their experience. So hopefully, you know, I'm hoping for our basketball team
going against a guy like Ed Cota and Capel and guys that have been around for a couple of
years. I'm hoping our past experiences this season have helped our younger guys grow up
and they've learned they're different players today than they were as younger players back
in Maui. 
 
Q. Coach, you mentioned before about Carolina's style and their talent. What concerns
you most about either their style or their talent? What are you focusing on going into
that game?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: To me they are a great, great basketball team. They have a combination
of great, great perimeter play and great low-post presence. Haywood is a very, very
difficult guy to defend. This will be, by far, the biggest team we have ever seen. Cota,
there's not anything that guy has not seen over a four-year period in his career
defensively. He has great court awareness, court vision, he's crafty with the ball, he
doesn't turn it over. He knows how to play 40 minutes a night. He's conditioned to do
that. Forte has stepped up and obviously has impacted college basketball as much as any
freshman. Then you have Capel, a guy who can knock down three, 6-8, athletic, can do a
variety of different things. That's only the perimeter. Now you have to deal with Lang up
front, great jump hook, great presence; Haywood, size. The fact that North Carolina in the
tournament has a plus eight rebounding differential on their opponent, that's huge. When
you're an 8 seed, you're playing against great competition every night. To be
outrebounding your opponent by eight rebounds speaks volumes of their basketball team.
They pose a lot of different problems both with their back court and with their front
court. 
 
Q. You talked about the height. What are you going to do to try to neutralize that?
Does it put more emphasis on running and getting the big guys tired?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: You hope so. Hopefully, you know, we can create a situation where some
of their front-court players are playing top of the key to top of the key a little bit.
The one thing about their front-court players is I have not seen a team this year where
they post feed by just throwing the ball up as high as they can and no one can get to it
because Haywood is so long and so big. What we've got to try to do is eliminate those lob
passes to the basket that lead to turn score and dunk. And try to somehow, as the ball's
lobbed in the air, get back behind him and force him to finish plays over our defense.
Because I'm going to tell you what, we played Tennessee twice this year. That was as big
of a team as we played against up to this point in time. And watching that game film, for
the people that saw Tennessee play against North Carolina, C.J. Black, Hathaway and Isaiah
Victor, I couldn't see them on film, standing behind their guys. They were eliminated and
removed out of the post. And we're not as big as Tennessee is. So we've got obviously a
tremendous challenge as a team collectively trying to deal with their post and try to deal
with their perimeter. Not one guy on our team is going to guard Forte one-on-one, Cota
one-on-one. Not one guy is going to guard Brendan Haywood up front one-on-one. 
 
Q. Billy, any team that plays a pressure defense like yours is going to give up an
occasional layup, especially against the better competition, an occasional layup and
occasional jump shot. It seems to me it would take kind of a strong conviction, a strong
stomach for a coach to be able to sit back and know that that's part of the process. Can
you talk about that a little bit?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I think that's the biggest thing, if you're going to have to deal with
that. I think that this system and that style of play is very, very difficult to coach
because you take the control away a little bit. Because I got to teach these guys to make
decisions in transition. When you extend 94 feet, there are more decisions that need to be
made. There's more room for error. We're taking more chances. Obviously percentages tell
you just fall back, guard the basket. But you're going to have to live with some of that.
Now, I compare it this way. You get teams that get out, play great half-court defense,
deny, deny, deny, they get beat back up for a layup. Coaches live with that. In our system
and our style of play, we're going have to live with, hopefully, not too many, but some
gimmes. I will give up one or two, three of those baskets to create pace and tempo and
fatigue. Now what I want to see happen is if we do give up an easy basket is to have the
ball outlet at the neck as quickly as we can and race down the floor right back at them as
quickly as we. I think that's what you try to do to offset a quick score. I know with Ed
Cota being a senior in college a game is going to start, he is fresh. Carolina's team is
fresh. They are going to do a great job handling our press. That is just the facts of the
matter. So, you know, what do you do? Do you go back, play zone, try to jam the lane up,
not give up anything easy, or do you try to do the things that have gotten you to this
point in time? From a coaching standpoint, each and every day with a young basketball
team, I can't tell you how challenging it is, how much I want to pull back the reins and
control every pass. If I do, I'm taking away from their system and creativity. I have to
coach them how to play offensively and defensively. 
 
Q. Bill, would you discuss the challenge of taking a scorer in high school like Ted
DuPay and trying to develop him into a complete player and making him effective in a
ten-man rotation system?
 
 COACH DONOVAN: I think the one thing for us right now is we've got a lot of guys that
came out of high school averaging a lot of points and were very successful. Generally,
things that they do in high school, they're not going to be able to do at the collegiate
level. No way at 5-9 this level of playing in the SEC, one of the best in the country,
he's going to score 48 points in a game. What I have to do to the best of my ability is
get them to play within a system and teach them how to play the game of basketball. I look
at it this way, shooting the basketball takes about two seconds. So if you take ten shots,
that's 20 seconds that you've done something. If you're playing 25 minutes in a game, my
question would be for the other 24 minutes and 40 seconds, what are you doing while you're
out there? And I try to make a guy like Mike Miller understand, who's 6-9, there's so many
other parts of the game than shooting and scoring. Same thing with Brett Nelson, same
thing with Teddy DuPay. Anybody can shoot it, but to me, the great players affect the game
when they're not shooting the basketball. Teddy DuPay is as intelligent as any kid I've
coached. There's other ways he can be effective defensively. There's other ways he can be
effective offensively. That's what I try to teach these guys, how to play the game. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT