BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 17, 2000
Steve Flesch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 STEVE FLESCH: This is only my third time I've ever played this course; so I'm having
trouble remembering all the holes exactly. 15, hit a 3-wood down there in the middle of
the fairway and a 7-iron about 20 feet and ran that one in. 16, was over the green in two
with a 5-wood and was on the back fringe. 2-putted from about 50 feet. And then 2, I hit a
good 3-iron in there about 15 feet right of the hole, down the hill; ran that one in. 3, I
hit a 7-iron about 15 feet behind the hole and made that one. 5, I had a sand wedge from
about 95 yards. I think I hit it about 15 feet and made that one. Par 5, the next hole, I
went for the green with a 5-wood. Hit it right of the green and hit a good lob on there
from the rough about probably 12 feet; ran that one in. And then on 9, my last hole, I hit
a good drive and a 7-iron probably about eight feet and made that one. So I managed to
kind of get the putter going out there a little bit.  
 
Q. How many putts did you have?
 
 STEVE FLESCH: No idea. I haven't counted them up.  
 
Q. Did you have any 3-putts? 
 
 STEVE FLESCH: No 3-putts. I hit a lot of greens today, kind of how I normally play.
Just kind of -- I hit it 20, 25 feet a lot, and if I manage to get a little -- I'll hit it
in there a little closer. That's just how I play. If I go out and play my normal game,
I'll probably hit 14, 15 greens. If I get the putter going, I'll have a round like today.
If not, like yesterday, I hit it the same way and only made three birdies, I think, and a
bogey and shot 2-under. So a lot of how I play just depends on how I putt, like everybody
else, I guess. That's nothing new. But today I think I might have only missed two greens
out there, something like that. I know I missed 10, my first green, and I think I hit them
all on the last nine. Yeah, I think I might have only missed one green out there today.  
 
Q. Today's a big day for lefties. Mike Weir's (inaudible) --
 
 STEVE FLESCH: I saw that, hard to miss . I think he started with five birdies in a row.
On the back nine they have the big scoreboard that you could see that he birdied the first
five in the row. I said to my caddie, "Look at Mike, he's running away." Because
the way -- I've played with him enough to know that he's such a great putter, if he just
gives himself opportunities, he's going to make a lot of them. So I don't know if Bay Hill
sets up any better for a righty or a lefty, but the two of us today maybe happened to get
our putter going a little bit, and it just so happens to be we're left-handed.  
 
Q. Are there courses that set-up better for left-handers than right-handers?
 
 STEVE FLESCH: We get that question quite often, but it just depends. If a left-hander
cuts the ball and a right-hander draws it, then it sets up well. But just like anything
else, if a right-hander like hits a cut all the time and all the holes go right-to-left,
then it doesn't set up well for them. It's the same to us, if we hit it left-to-right and
the holes go right-to-left, it's just different courses for different horses.  
 
Q. I guess there was no residual event from the broken bone last year?
 
 STEVE FLESCH: Other than mentally, no. I came back a little bit too soon from that last
year, rushed it. Didn't really have that great of a West Coast. And when the doctors gave
me the okay to go ahead, even though it was just two weeks after I felt and broke it, and
they -- two orthopedic surgeons assured me I couldn't hurt myself, I was like, all right,
I'll go, but the rest of the year I was a little bit tentative. I had a decent year for
that, and my clubs getting stolen and all that other fun stuff that happened last year.
But this year, I think just kind of got a little bit of rest over the holidays. Just
cleared all that out of my mind. Just started with everything new and the arms felt great.
Haven't had any residual effects from it, and fortunately, I've gotten off to a quick
start. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT