U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Patrick McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First of all did, could you tell us what the crowd did for you?

PATICK McENROE: Well, just kind of kept me going, you know. I was really struggling the
first two sets and I was just trying to find my way somehow to get into the match just
anyway to just make it competitive, you know, to get in the points. And once I started to
do that a little bit, I got a good start in the third set and they just kept getting
behind me more and more and just picked up my game, you know, my level just pick up and I
was able to get back in it and, you know, slowly work my way back into the match.

Q. How much of that is external and how much of it is internal. Did you tell yourself
one thing during the tiebreaker? How do you keep the focus?

PATICK McENROE: The tiebreaker obviously I had a lot of adrenaline going and I felt
like I would win the tiebreak, you know, to coming back from 5-2 and certainly they were
on my side and everything. I just felt like I was in a zone when I got into the tiebreaker
and everything was just so still and I just felt like I was going to hit the right shots.
Maybe he was going to have to come up with great shots too to win the tiebreak. That's the
way I felt. I really didn't feel nervous or like I was going to lose it. I felt like he
had to win it because I felt like, you know, I was -- I just felt confident.

Q. You seem to be more excited about winning this match, is it because it's the Open?

PATRICK McENROE: Oh, for sure. I mean, I've always wanted to play my best here, and I
played well here but not consistently and to come back like that in a match like that,
it's satisfying. It makes me realize that the work I did I've been doing, it pays off
because, you know, if physically you can't handle it there's no way you could come back in
that situation. So, I knew that I could if I could get just get into the match that I
could go as long as I had to go.

Q. What goes through your mind when you're down 5-2 in the fourth?

PATRICK McENROE: Well, obviously -- you know, even in that game when I served it 2-5 I
think I might have been down 15-30. So I knew I wanted to make him serve for it, and I
still felt like -- it wasn't like the first three sets where he was really dominating me.
You know, he was up that one break but I still felt that I could get into the points and
have a good chance to break him whereas in the first two sets he was just all over me and
playing real well. I didn't feel comfortable. But at that point I didn't feel like I was
out of it by any means. I knew I was in the match and if I could just somehow break him
that I could get the momentum on my side.

Q. Do you think the crowd is there because of New York or because McEnroe or is it --

PATRICK McENROE: Well, hopefully all of them. I think, you know, all those things and I
think, you know, my style of play and I feel like I'm always fighting and I'm always
giving my best and that's what I did, and I think the people here enjoy that. And
obviously they enjoy seeing more tennis, you know, they wanted me to come back. If I was
up two sets they might have started cheering for him. And that's the way it goes, and
obviously it was a tremendous feeling to have the people into it like that and hopefully I
can keep going a few more.

Q. Where do you rank this on wins in your career? 

PATRICK McENROE: Well, this is a big one just because of where it is and I think the
situation and coming back from two sets and, you know, Volkov's a very tough player,
especially at the Open. He's got a great record here and I knew it would be tough. I
expect the next one to be tough and hopefully I can get a little bet better start in my
next match and play better, but this certainly was one of the bigger ones that I've had
and I hope it becomes less big because I can win a few more here.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT