U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was wrong today?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Nothing. 
 
Q. Nothing?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Nothing. 
 
Q. You were supposed to win?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Huh? 
 
Q. You were supposed to win?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Well, supposed to doesn't mean that I'm going to win, you know. I
think, in my opinion, Vince play pretty good tennis and, you know, basically I didn't have
any chance to beat him. He was all over my game, and he was dominating all three sets.
This just happened. It was a bad day maybe for me that I didn't play my best tennis. 
 
Q. And it was something about the lights or night match?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, it was my first match here in the U.S. Open Stadium Court,
and this year I didn't play not five minutes on the Stadium Court, I didn't have any
chances so -- and I found the court was much faster than the others. It took me, you know,
one-and-a-half sets to feel the atmosphere, to feel the court, to feel the new
surroundings. 
 
Q. What did you know about him?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: We played one month ago. I beat him, but it was on clay court. I
always beat him. 
 
Q. Is there a possibility that you underestimated him at beating him so recently?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I knew that it's going to be difficult match for me, and as I said,
you know, this is maybe the bad day for me, you know. I cannot play good tennis, you know,
every match here in this Open. You just happen, you know, I never played on a stadium so
far this year. It was the first match. Maybe, you know, I had difficulty to see the ball,
to feel the atmosphere, you know. 
 
Q. Have you played in this stadium before?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I played last year, but not this year. 
 
Q. Have you ever --
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I didn't even have the chance to practice not five minutes on the
Stadium Court.  
 
Q. Are you angry?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No, I'm not angry. I'm very satisfied. Why should I be angry? 
 
Q. That he --
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Maybe it was my fault, not their fault. I cannot blame them because
-- just because I didn't have any chances to hit in the center court. It was definitely my
fault. 
 
Q. What was it about his game that was so difficult for you tonight? Did anything
surprise you?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: His groundstrokes was more solid than mine. And I thought he served
pretty well. You know, he was dominating all three sets. You know, I never had a chance to
put pressure on him because he was trying to, you know, to rush me all the time and
everything. His game was working pretty well. 
 
Q. Was it difficult playing an American in a night match in a U.S. Open like tonight?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I played last year night match. Yeah, I guess Stich, I lost. Same
story happened here, I played again night match and again I went down. Maybe it's just --
I really don't know what's happened. 
 
Q. But playing an American out there, does that even make it worse? 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah, it was a little bit bothering me. I thought I had some bad
calls against me and, you know, I just couldn't do anything and that was that. And of
course, all the people was staying behind him, they was supporting him. I'm No. 7 seed,
he's nobody. And of course they wanted him to beat me. 
 
Q. You seemed to have a lot of trouble with getting your serve in?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: As I said, the light was really bothering me, I think. You know,
first two round match I played at 11 o'clock in the morning, so -- when the light was
perfect and everything, but today I really had some difficulties to feel the court, to
feel the atmosphere and all. Playing on court 16, it's very big difference to play on the
Stadium Court. 
 
Q. Is this the most disappointing loss in your pro career do you think?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No. To be honest, I'm not disappointed, I'm really happy.
Seriously, to be honest, I'm happy that -- not very happy, but, you know -- how to explain
to you? You know, I had a great summer here in the U.S. Open, maybe I got a little bit
tired because I played singles and doubles every tournament. It's just -- just didn't work
out well. And, of course, you know, I'm going to have three weeks off so I can recover and
prepare for the indoor season. That's basically my favorite surface, so I'm really looking
forward to it. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT