GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1999
Yevgeny Kafelnikov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. He's played you pretty tough before. Anything that makes the difference against him? 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I mean, the bottom line is he's a tough competitor. Every time we
step on the court and face each other, it's a big battle. Today was basically the same
story, but I was fortunate enough to win those crucial points in the ninth game of each
set. That's what makes a difference. But besides that, we had some unbelievable long
points and definitely was an entertaining match for the fans to watch.  
 
Q. Talk about who you might play tomorrow. 
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Doesn't make any difference. It's going to be another day in the
office. I have to come out and play hard like I always do. Hope for the best things that's
going to happen tomorrow. You know, it's a quarterfinal match. It's again for me a big,
big opportunity to make one step closer to the possible 1 ranking. It's not going to get
any tougher than it is at the moment. Just going to try to focus on the match and try to
do the best that I can. Don't get me wrong, this caliber of performance, everybody I
should take very seriously. Every player -- you know, the level of the game is very high
at the moment. The ranking doesn't mean anything. When I'm facing the player ranked 87,
like Chris, for example, a few crucial balls, points, separate the results of the game.
That's probably what might happen tomorrow. A few crucial points, and hopefully I won't
capitulate those points, but I'm not looking for any easy matches.  
 
Q. Pete and Andre go out, they automatically have a little edge. Do you feel like you
have that edge?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You know, definitely, I'm sure a lot of players have respect for me
as a tennis player. They know every time I step on the court, I give sometimes not hundred
percent, but I give best what I can on a given day. But, you know, I also think that those
guys, you know, they definitely favorites when they go in the tournament and competing,
especially on hard court. But I don't think they are really favorites when they go in on
clay courts. But definitely in their own country, every time they go, you take this
tournament, next upcoming tournaments, Washington or Indianapolis, they going to be
favorite to win, no question.  
 
Q. When did you start working with Larry?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Beginning of the year. 
 
Q. Around January?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Yeah. 
 
Q. What different things has he tried to do with you?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: He kept motivating me. That was important aspect. I felt I was
missing that in the past couple years. 
 
Q. What kinds of things does he say?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: You know, I'm the kind of player who likes to play for someone. You
know, when we together, when he watches me play, you know, I know there's someone in the
crowd who really supports me. That's important. That's what makes a big difference. Not
you got to play for yourself, but you have to hold the responsibility for someone else. 
 
Q. How did you find him?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: Long story. Long story. We known each other for, say, six years,
since I join the Tour.  
 
Q. When you talk about wanting to play for someone, is that because lots of times,
especially in America, people are neither for you or against you, the crowd is just out
there watching?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: No, it's just the way -- it really doesn't matter. For example,
when I'm playing, even though the crowd is not supporting me, I don't really care about
it. I know I have to compete with the player, the opponent who stands on the opposite side
of the court. Even though sometimes I don't get enough support, that's the fact that I
have to live with it. Sometimes it do help when the crowd is not supporting me, that I get
a little bit ego, I want to prove that I'm a better player. It's nice feelings, like I
said, when you have somebody who's holding their breath, wants you to win the match or the
tournament.  
 
Q. Did you have a coach last year, different coach?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I had a coach for six years since I join the Tour. You know,
unfortunately, we split up. It was a period of time when I couldn't find anybody that I
was really satisfied with. 
 
Q. What were you looking for?
 
 YEVGENY KAFELNIKOV: I was looking for the friend, first of all. Larry has been so far
so good.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT