NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 30, 2000
David Berst
Cedric Dempsey
Bill Saum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Thanks, Jane. I will make my comments reasonably brief, I hope, so that
we have as much opportunity for questions and interchanges as possible. As Jane indicated,
I really want to talk basically about three areas. I want to talk about the basketball
issues, committee report, and what will be presented at the April meeting of Management
Council in Division I and Board of Directors, and what I have personally endorsed related
to pieces of legislation. I'd like to talk about the deregulation proposals that have been
moved through our committee process and we take it up in April to hopefully move out into
the membership and what that process will be. And deregulation, we are referring to the
preenrolled student-athlete legislation that we currently have, as well as post-enrolled
student-athlete. And, thirdly, which I will start with, is the sports wagering initiative
that the Association has been active with. I'm sure many of you did see there was a
hearing of the Commerce Committee yesterday, Senator McCain's committee, which a number of
us attended, and I'll give you my reflection on that and where we are related to our
gambling initiatives. Let me start there. I think most of you are aware for about the last
three years now we have been very proactive in federal legislation related to the Internet
gambling laws in Congress. That is moving along in the House, and to be voted on by the
Senate in the near future. We're pleased with the interest and response on that particular
issue as it relates to the Internet gambling and also the concerns about illegal sports
wagering in this country, as it relates particularly to college athletes, high school
athletes and Olympic athletes. So you are aware, also, that we have been supportive and
encouraged the passage of an addition to a rule from 1992 that would eliminate the legal
betting that takes place presently on college sports, any betting that would take on high
school sports or Olympic sports. The hearing yesterday in Washington dealt with the
legislation on legal betting, on college sports. We are very encouraged by the response
that we are getting from the House and from the Senate on this issue. We recognize that we
have strong opposition in the gaming association, but we are somewhat confident at this
point if we can get it to the floor for a vote, we will win that vote. The responses that
we've had and the support we've had with both the House and the Senate is extremely
encouraging to us. That is somewhat of a departure, if you will, from some earlier
comments I have made. We recognized we had an uphill battle. But we feel now we're running
a pretty fast pace on this, and that we do see that many members of Congress, many members
of the Senate support that, as referred to yesterday -- (inaudible) -- unseemly the vote
on college students. So that is the latest on that, and, again, I will be -- two pieces of
legislation that will be going to the House and to the Senate and hopefully will reach
them for their vote. On basketball issues, in the upcoming men's Division I Management
Council in about two weeks, they will look at the proposals that had come back from our
membership, as well as the proposals that were proposed by the subcommittee of the acting
eligibility cabinet, and it is our hope that they will support the concept of putting of
all that legislation out to our membership, and what we will propose as a timetable on --
did I skip? Did I go to amateurism? Let me backtrack, I'm sorry. I got my two areas mixed
up. As we're talking about basketball issues and Division I, Division I Management Council
will vote -- will take action on recommendations that have been proposed that have come
out of almost a two-year study now, the Basketball Issues Committee and, in addition, the
proposals that have come from different conferences throughout the country; that a Board
of Directors at the end of April will take final action as to what changes would be made
related to changing the culture of basketball. We have endorsed the need to change the
culture in basketball. We have made three recommendations that we think are foundation to
that change. There are several others that we can support, but I would prefer to address
three areas that we have endorsed and share it with different segments of our membership.
One is that we would endorse, providing financial aid for incoming men's and women's
basketball players. I would support that we do this for a five-year period and determine
whether or not we have made any improvements in graduation rates. And that has an -- as an
Association, I would also support that we would have a matching grant back to the
institutions from the Association's budget. I'm for that particular purpose. With that
summer program, student-athletes would be required to take six units of core courses, not
academic programs at all, and that there would also be a bridge program to help them
adjust and be ready when the fall semester. We think this will certainly enhance their
academic preparedness as they move into the year. It also gives them a good start in
advance of their participation in men and women's basketball. That is the first part of
the academic concept of legislation that we agreed to. We have also endorsed the concept
of an initial number for recruiting in basketball, similar to what we have in football.
There have been several different proposals presented, the basketball issue's proposal was
really four per year. We would agree more with the SouthEastern Conference discussions
that they've had, that over a two-year period there would be a limit of eight, they would
not allow five in any one year. We think that is a more practical approach to the issue.
We would endorse doing this in lieu of the incentive legislation that has been proposed.
We think this is an incentive in itself in the fact that how many are going to have and
put an emphasis on retention, will be very important to success in the programs.
...(Inaudible) I think it has the same kind of benefit to it if you are successful in
retention, then obviously you will be able to move forward with a full complement of
athletes. The other piece that was proposed of an incentive package, we feel that until we
really better defined, if you will, the graduation rate, it makes it very difficult
administratively to administer, and, secondly, it's whether or not it's a more valid
approach. So if the membership wants to move in that direction, our recommendation would
be that we continue to try to find a better tool, if you will, to determine successful
academic programs than what we presently have. Thirdly, we have talked about the
recruiting calendar, which is probably the most controversial. We will propose that we
eliminate the summer evaluation period and that we delay the implementation of that
legislation for a year and that we spend a year trying to rebuild a culture that is more
beneficial to perspective student-athletes, and we have the right people influencing
student-athletes in our future direction. So those are the four -- three pieces of
legislation that we have felt that are very important as building a new cornerstone and
helping begin to develop a new culture as it relates to the sport of basketball. I think
the Board of Directors in Division I established the committee because they felt there
were many cultural problems related to basketball that needed to be addressed, and that
committee has spent almost a year in developing its proposals, and when that was put out
for review by the membership, we did get a number of other proposals on variations to what
the Basketball Issue's Committee had proposed. Our feeling after reviewing what had come
in from our membership plus the committee, that those three pieces of legislation were
critical for any significant change that addresses the academic area; it addresses the
recruiting issues in the summer, issues that we had before, recognizing that as a
beginning. That is not an end to that process. But we think that...(Inaudible) our current
rule will not help us change the culture of the summer programs, and we want to reengage
in that redefinition as soon, hopefully, as the legislation might be passed. So... That is
the second piece, and then I'll go back to where I got caught off target in talking about
deregulation. As I mentioned, a subcommittee of the academic eligibility cabinet spent
over a year looking at preenrolled student athlete legislation that we have presently, and
had forwarded a number of proposals that are somewhat dramatic in terms of change for our
membership. I think it is important to put that complete package out to the membership,
and our time process that we will recommend doing that is that they will put it out to the
membership in April; that we will provide the opportunity for our membership and other
constituent groups to have feedback, any suggestions that they have regarding the number
of pieces of legislation changes that are being proposed, and that come next January at
our convention, as we did this time on the basketball issues, that we would have a form
and a vote and discussion on that from our membership. And a year from the April meeting
of this year is when we would vote on the deregulation package. We will fall not only into
that deregulation package preenroll legislation, but I would also ask that committee to
view post-enroll legislation and make proposals, and, again, that same process would
occur. So it would be our desire that a year from now at the Management Council Board of
Directors meeting in April of 2001, we would be prepared to move forward on a voting on
deregulation. I think that we're talking about significant change, change is always scary
within any organization. And we feel it needs that time to be massaged, developed, altered
and looked at for what might fit better and how far and how much change does our
membership -- is our membership interested in accepting. So those are three areas I wanted
to put on the table for discussion today. I would like to try to answer any others. We
have David and Bill up here as well, as we get into some specific areas that their
day-to-day efforts might have on additional insights. I think, Jane, at this point I would
like to just open it up for some comments. 
 
Q. You mentioned the gambling initiatives in Congress, talked about the students, the
problem with students gambling. But in light of the University of Michigan, a survey of
officials, can you comment on what the NCAA is doing or can do to protect the integrity of
the game now that we have heard from officials that, indeed, that might be in question?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: We had already started last year a background check on officials, and
last year we had one official that was not approved as a result of that background check
and process. Our Basketball Committee has also gone through a basketball -- a background
check. This was at their request. We thought it would be appropriate for the Committee to
also have that same kind of scrutiny. Members of our staff that deal with that area have
also gone through a background check. So that is one aspect of it. We've been meeting with
officials, and Bill will be meeting with the Final Four officials this week. That is
something we've always been concerned about and we move forward in addressing that issue. 
 JANE JANKOWSKI: Next question, please? 
 
Q. I'm wondering what your plans are to deal with the concern from the Student
Basketball Council, specifically related to stipends and there are concerns that the rules
in your organization are, in their words, "Arcane."
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: We have encouraged to meet with our student council, our national
council in particular in Division I to discuss the concerns that the basketball athletes
had expressed and to put it in the legislative process of the Association. We will be
having a discussion prior to Saturday's game including our chair of the Student Athlete
Council, a member, Jane, will be there along with President Kenneth Shaw of Syracuse
discussing what the issues are from the basketball group, and certainly encourage the
student-athlete group to look those over and work with that particular group to forward
any recommendations that the current system provides. 
 
Q. The elimination of the summer evaluation, does that effectively ban coaches from
camps? And if so, what impact do you expect that to have on the camps?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: It would affect a coach's ability to evaluate during the summertime. 
 
Q. Does it ban them from camps? What impact do you expect that to have on the camps?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: What impact do we expect that to have is a little premature. We want to
see whether or not we can work with all the organizations including the high school
programs and adopting a different culture of how we run our summer programs and we'll
encourage participation by all parties and then we'll know better how much of an impact
it's going to have. 
 
Q. Two things. One, how do you deal with the fact that the majority of those schools
say they need the summer, and, two, how do you address the guardian issue during the
course of the school year, as we've seen with a couple of guys that got ineligible, had
nothing to do with the summer, but more to do with this before high school issue of
amateurs and where someone is helping them out. The summer wouldn't necessarily get rid of
that program.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: What was your first question again? 
 
Q. How do you deal with the masses of the schools actually wanting the summer to find
those players? The majority of the schools obviously want it.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: We have had discussion via conference call with all the commissioners
in One A, One Double A, One Triple A, have talked about that issue. We recognize that it
might not be the most possible of all the amendments. At the same time we've had some
members from Division I, Triple A and Double A conferences indicate that they think it's
more beneficial to One A schools. So I think there's some mixed messages that have come
back from those groups. But by delaying for a year, addressing all those kind of issues,
we think we can still make a major change in summer culture, and at the same time not to
be detrimental to any one second of Division I. The second part, Bill, did you pick up on
that? 
 BILL SAUM: Andy, the issue with the guardianship is something that we actually just
visited with NBC about to get their output and Mr. Dempsey encouraged the NABC to join
with the Agent Amateurs Subcommittee to review that. The membership told us they don't
want those people involved if it's related to benefits due to athletic's talent. And it's
a very intricate discussion when -- it's not as simple as to say that someone is taking
care of someone because they like them. It's not that simple. It's very intricate. We --
our coaches, our athletic directors need to decide who they wish to be involved in our
game, and I think over the next year to year and a half we're going figure that out. 
 JANE JANKOWSKI: Next question, please. 
 
Q. Ced, two questions. First, with the proposal to allow nonqualifiers to get aid
during their first year, doesn't that pretty much gut Prop 16?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: I don't think so. In looking at that, one reason we can support that
legislation is in Prop 16, we cut out a segment of partial qualifiers, if you will, that
demonstrate our partial qualifiers that fall into that area on aid have done just as well
as the lower end of full qualifiers, and so it's really giving those people that have
demonstrated a segment of the population at least an opportunity to receive aid, so we
don't feel that is really cutting, if you will. 
 
Q. It effectively eliminates the whole partial qualifier that has kids who were scoring
700, 720 on the SAT will get full scholarships to college --
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: They will not be eligible. 
 
Q. -- if university and coach wants to use one of those initial eligibility grants --
or initial grants for that purpose.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: (Inaudible). 
 
Q. Same question, just real quick. You mentioned not endorsing incentive graduation
rates. What did you not like about the Vanderbilt proposal to tie scholarships to whether
or not kids left school?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: One complexity of the administration of it, involvement through that in
a number of our services that we provide in membership, we see this as -- comes almost as
another query process and becomes more expensive. And more importantly, there is a lot of
disagreement in how you determine graduation rates. If the membership wishes to head in
that direction, we would encourage that we do a study on trying to develop a different
model for graduation rates that might be more simple to administer, and, secondly, more
valid in terms of the culture. ...(Inaudible). 
 
Q. I wondered if you could explain how much research has gone in to examining the
summer programs and how much time maybe you yourself or members of your committees have
spent in the summer venues? It doesn't seem like there have been -- there has been a lot
of hands-on research done in that regard.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Well, there's been a lot of study that's been done that's gone on that
certainly as a staff we have been evaluating many of these legislative areas for a long
time. And that, and also in light of certainly what no one denies as the culture that's
taking place, is grounds to me that we need to change that culture. The best way to change
it is to build a new culture, not tweak the present culture. 
 
Q. I'm not sure if this is for you or Bill. The question is regarding the University of
Michigan study, it found one-fifth of the officials responding gambled on this tournament
in the past. Two percent said they were aware of officials that didn't call games fairly
because of gambling reasons. Do those statistics surprise you at all?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: What was your first part? Some of the stats that I saw, I think need to
be examined. I think they're talking about 80 percent that said they gambled. If we poll
this group here, we'd have that same kind of percentage, buying a lottery ticket. We have
to evaluate what that 84 percent means. Bill, do you want to comment on the other pieces? 
 BILL SAUM: Sure. Let's point out first of all this was a study of men's and women's
officials and football officials. 31 percent of the respondents were men's basketball
officials. The study did not then determine the statics you provided, who did what. I
think we also need to remember that officials are a component of a segment of society, and
certainly this didn't really surprise us. This is the real life that we live in. It is
inappropriate for officials to wager on college athletics. It's certainly, those
individuals that officiate in our Championships in men's and women's basketball have
signed a gambling affidavit as referred to by Mr. Dempsey in his opening remarks, there
was an individual that was prohibited appointment because of the way he filled out that
gaming affidavit last year. We now conduct background checks and we're pleased to note
that the 100 background checks that we conducted this year, there were no hits on those.
We have spent the last three years with the officials in many different forms. The FBI has
assisted us in educating them. We meet with the supervisors of officials. Several of our
conferences have actually included in their contracts with their officials language
regarding sports wagering. So we're on the right track here. This is a journey, working
with the officials, and we're very comfortable with the integrity of the officials and the
integrity of the game in which they officiate. 
 JANE JANKOWSKI: Next question. 
 
Q. You've been a little vague on a couple of issues and I want to see if I can get you
to be more specific. No. 1, deregulation. This year you had several players who were
suspended basically because a friend or an outsider helped pay their way to a prep school
to help them educationally. Is that going to be part of the deregulation? Do you feel that
that is something that should be changed that people can help, particularly kids whose
families are not able to pay for them to go to prep schools so they can't get into
college? That's the first question.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Okay. That is probably one of the most difficult of our preenrolled
legislation that we have. And I think in theory, we do not disagree with that at all. I
think as we were talking with the coaches a while ago, at some point -- at some point --
there is some disagreement as to where you draw the line, as to who provides the financial
aid. I think it's important for us to work with coaches and important for us to work with
our membership and find out, where is that comfort zone? Is it at the point when the shoe
company provides aid? Are they comfortable with that? Is it -- where do you draw the line? 
 
Q. Okay. Second question, money, stipends. Should athletes get a stipend? Should
athletes benefit from the incredible amounts of money that the NCAA is getting from this
tournament?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Let me put that in perspective. I think that's a real overused
criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, there's $3.4 billion a year spent in this country on
collegiate athletics by our universities. $827 million a year spent on financial aid.
That's more money than the package that we're talking about. So we do invest a lot in
student athletes. The demarkation between professional sports and intercollegiate sports
is where you're going to pay student athletes. I've always advocated that it's an
opportunity for student athletes to have up to the full cost of attendance. Our present
grant need does not provide that. On an average, it falls about $2,000 short. We certainly
encourage students and institutions to encourage their students to apply for the program.
We have a Student Assistance Fund. And as much as we talk about that, we need to -- I
called Dick Vitale a month ago, he said what we need in the NCAA is a Special Assistance
Fund so students can have that for emergencies. I said Dick, we have a Student Assistance
Fund worth $10 million. I've even advocated in the next contract we increase that fund to
$25 million. If you want to put it in a broad perspective, if you took all the student
athletes on full aid right now and you add the $15 million, that would be going up about
$1,000 per student. I'm not sure that's the best way to use those dollars. I think it
would be better to base it on the individual needs the student-athletes pay. They have a
great deal of flexibility in how they use that Student Assistance Fund. So I think there
are a lot of opportunities for student-athletes to receive dollars up to that cost of
attendance. I don't see it as demarcating from that cost of attendance limitation to
outright paying student athletes. That's not our mission. That's the mission of
professional athletics. If that's the choice of student athletes, that's where they should
go.  
 
Q. If we get to a situation where there is this developmental league and there is an
option for a student coming out of high school now to decide, go to a development league
where I will get some kind of stipend, whatever it is, or come to the NCAA and not get
that, do you think in the long term there is going to be a $6 billion contract from a
network when they realize of the top 50 players, 20 of them are playing in the
developmental league. Is that a problem?
 
 CEDRIC DEMSPEY:: We have a lot of contract. We have time to work through those
particular issues. Secondly, I think we will have probably more student athletes coming to
school for reasons that we have outside of sports, to gain an education. We will probably
lose some athletes that are using college sports strictly to showcase their wears and move
on quick. They never have any intention to finish school. Their intent is to make it into
the pros, stay two years and never make much progress toward a degree. That might be an
avenue that they want to pursue. My biggest concern is we're going to encourage a lot of
people through that system, a lot of young people, who see the professional sport outlet
as their only means to move forward in life, make some contribution to society. And try
that route, not having a fall back. They don't have an educational background, some
educational training to assist them in other walks of life, what's going to happen to them
when the vast majority of those that go into any kind of minor league program don't make
it? 
 
Q. Mr. Dempsey, in the last year or so we've heard at least two very prominent people
in college basketball, namely Mike Transvisi (phonetic) of the Big East Conference and
Mike Krzyzewski, the Coach of Duke, discuss what they feel is a need for a creation of
some sort of a commissioner or a czar that would deal exclusively with college basketball,
that would more or less, in their words, "Tend to the game" which they don't
feel is being done under the current setup. What kind of response do you have when you get
feedback like that from two prominent people?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Basketball is part of community athletics. The individual
student-athlete should be an integral part of the student body. When you look at sport
from that standpoint, I think having a czar is not necessarily the direct or right
approach to use. We are a membership organization. Our organization has thrived and built
and built upon input from our membership as to what's best for a particular sport. More
importantly, what's best for student-athletes. So I don't see pulling out a sport and
operating it independently from the rest of the sports --...(Inaudible) I think there's
things we can do. We talked to the Basketball Committee today about getting more input
from them, how can -- how much input they want to get involved with, and we encourage them
to be a part of the change that we're talking about. I can assure you, people at this
table and other staff people have worked on deregulation issues, and we've been doing it
now for over four years. From a staff standpoint we've had communities working on it for
over two years. We will make those necessary changes if people agree. I'm not sure coaches
even agree on what changes ought to be made. I think the structure is available for those
changes to be made if people participate and become involved in what changes are necessary
for the good of the games. 
 
Q. Mr. Dempsey, in your opening statement you made mention of the fact that with regard
to the gaming issue you felt you had gone from an uphill battle to now being in a position
where this is a winnable situation in Congress. Can you explain -- cite exactly what it is
that made you feel that you've gone from that change from an uphill battle to something
that's pretty much guaranteed?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: The support we're getting from the members of Congress, from key
members of Congress. Certainly Senator McCain is a very strong force in Congress. You've
seen his popularity across this country. He has a very strong passion on this. We have
great support throughout a number of members of Congress. So we feel that we will win this
if we can get it to the floor for a vote. 
 
Q. Ced, if you could take a second to go back over the tone and tenor of that meeting
with the NABC and their willingness or lack thereof to embrace some of the changes you've
talked about, the summer league recruiting and the amateurism, and their willingness to
work with you in changing this culture.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: We didn't have enough time to really go into responses along the
proposals. I certainly would recognize it but I would disagree with summer evaluation.
That doesn't surprise me in any way. We had a discussion on that. We talked a lot about
coaches' involvement and progress and how we were able to assist them in that progress so
their wish can be heard. 
 
Q. I've been coming to this tournament since 1962. I think I've seen more Final Fours
than any of the writers. It strikes me that right now, as you enter it, closing in on your
$6 billion contract, things are more contentious than they've ever been. The NCAA has been
called Gestapo, Nazis and almost Communists in the last month by basketball coaches. Like
it or not, the perception is men's basketball is the cash cow for the rest of all of the
NCAA programs, and yet, for example, in the limit on the basketball recruiting, you
already have fewer scholarship's for men's basketball than women, and you're considering
restricting it even more even though the coaches and athletes oppose that. How are you
going to deal with -- whatever reality is -- the perception is the NCAA is contending to
cut back on men's college basketball, which provides all these other opportunities?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: You've been covering it since 1962, I would hope you agree with me it's
been one of the most successful tournaments we've ever had. I don't think from that
perspective that it's been bad. In fact, I had one very prominent coach yesterday say,
"You know, what came out of this tournament this year is people started paying
attention to what was the name on the front of the jersey, not what was the name on the
back of the jersey." And that was certainly a great interest. We had as much
promotion on it. I disagree with you that in intercollegiate athletics, and basketball in
particular, is not in a position to change. I think it will change and it might create
unrest with people. I think we will go through some pain before we have much gain. I think
we are going to change this culture and make it a more positive environment for young
people. We will have the right people influencing perspective student athletes as to where
they ought to be interested in going to school. I think we can do that in a collegiate
manner and...(Inaudible). I don't expect that it's going to be easy with some of the
changes I think that are on the forefront. 
 
Q. What is the purpose of the scholarship limit? Nobody seems to understand that,
although somebody --
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: What scholarship are you talking about? The initial awards? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Part of that is to encourage greater attention to those people you're
recruiting. There's concern about runoffs, there's concern about not paying attention to
their academic progress. That's why, to me, it is a very valid substitute for the
incentive program. Because if you do a good job with those that you recruit, you're going
to end up in a better position after four years, where you're going to be retaining one.
So it's an emphasis upon retention, emphasis upon academic support to help
student-athletes, and recruiting people who want to gain college education. 
 
Q. Players have been held out of contest before it's determined they did anything
wrong. Is there any discussion into allowing them to play while the investigation is
ongoing?
 
 BILL SAUM: Your comment is inaccurate. There's been no athlete we're aware of that's
been held out before a wrongdoing was decided. Our institutions are responsible for
putting eligible student-athletes on the floor. If they determine that a violation has
occurred, then they need to declare -- they choose whether to declare the athlete
ineligible or not and request the restoration. That's what's included in the high-profile
case I believe you're referring to. 
 
Q. You've talked about changing culture of basketball. I've heard you and other
staffers talk about the Association needing a force. On a philosophical basis, why does
the NCAA need to be kind of a force for social change? Why can't you just be in sports?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: In basketball, because I think that we are not being -- carrying our
responsibility in a high school federation lists their support as well, we're not carrying
that responsibility to the young people and providing them with kinds of information that
they should have in making choices. We have many cases where young people, we have a lot
of good people, that are influencing young people. We have a lot of people who don't have
that perspective student-athlete's best interest at heart. 
 
Q. I'll make this a quick three-part question. You talked about the Student Assistance
Fund, that you wanted to increase it to 25 million. What are the stipulations for students
to have the availability to this money? Do you feel that this isn't a well-known
assistance fund, and is this something that Chris Porter of Auburn could have applied for
to help save his situation?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: When you say it's well-known, either it's well-known and not paid
attention to by the media. We talk about that constantly about the Student Assistance
Fund, and it seems to fall on deaf ears. It's a fund that's been used for several years
now. Conferences and institutions worked to provide the flexibility on the use of those
funds, and it was questionable -- maybe you want to comment on this -- but as to whether
or not the funds, I think if I remember on the case you talked about, could have been used
for that purpose. David, do you want to talk on that? 
 DAVID BERST: This year all but $100,000 were actually used by various conferences, so
it's certainly understood by them and I guess the major uses have been medical expenses
that can't be covered somewhere else and clothing. The student-athlete that cannot afford
clothing can apply and receive up to $500 worth of clothing. So that's probably one of
those easy ones that you may not be aware of. I believe you're right. A real emergency
involving student-athlete can be something that can be applied for for relief. 
 
Q. When you talk about changing the culture in the summer, there's a concern on their
part you might be possibly throwing the baby out with the bath water. What the summer
coaches would like to know, what I would like to know, have you ever met a summer
basketball coach? And if you have, who is it and what was your opinion of it? Did you meet
someone that made you think this is not a good culture?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: I don't want to identify some people, I met one the other night in
Indianapolis when I was talking about this. He came up to me afterwards and talked to me
about it. We had a good conversation about it. As I said, there are a lot of fine coaches
who are helping the youth in this country. There are also some people that don't have the
best interest of the youth at heart. I don't want to identify their names, but yes, I have
met some of the summer league coaches. I've met some good ones and I've met some others
that would not be the kind of people that I think ought to be influencing other people. 
 
Q. You mentioned about trying to deal with this concern about runoffs. While I'm not
going to disagree that coaches do run players off, I'm kind of wondering, how do you know
they're running players off? Do players petition the NCAA, call the NCAA? Do they say I'm
being treated unfairly? How do you know that that really happens? Is there any way you can
document it?
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Certainly we do hear back from student-athletes raising questions along
that line. There are obviously other ways that we do find out. Staff has communication
with student-athletes. We hear it through our membership, hear it through our membership
committees. 
 
Q. Such as somebody complaining that they've been runoff, basically, is what it amounts
to.
 
 CEDRIC DEMPSEY: Our Membership Committees work on the campuses, and certainly have
insights into some of that, yes. 
 DAVID BERST: Commissioners as well. I mean and you. I mean, we have -- we see your
coverage, but commissioners have the insight, coaches themselves. 
 
Q. Coaches themselves?
 
 DAVID BERST: Yes. 
 
Q. They say they run people off?
 
 DAVID BERST: I don't know if a coach would actually say that he, himself, is guilty.
But I think that they would say to you that that occurs. 
 JANE JANKOWSKI: That concludes our press conference this afternoon. Mr. Dempsey, Bill,
David and David Price, the NCAA's Vice President for Enforcement will be available for a
short time for any follow-up questions. Thank you. 
 End of FastScriptsÃ ¢?Ã ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT