ATP Tour World Championship
November 29, 1998
Mark Miles
Ion Tiriac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: On behalf of the EXPO 2000, I would like to welcome you again to our summary
of this one more week of tennis. May I introduce to you Mr. Tiriac, and Dr. Volk, Chief
Executive of EXPO 2000. Dr. Volk, may I ask you for your statement now, please. 
 
 DR. VOLK: Ladies and Gentlemen, it is still one hour to I think a very dramatic and
good final, but I'm very proud to announce the first world champion today: I think that's
the people and the audience of Hannover. They are absolutely fair, they understand quite a
lot of sport, and they are very enthusiastic. With other words, they are a world-class
host to a world-class event. This makes me very convinced to say that Hannover and Germany
will be a good host to the first World Exposition in Germany in the year 2000. Even a
number of injuries did not withhold the fantastic audience here to be enthusiastic and
thrilled. They showed good sportsmanship and supported not only the qualified players, but
also the substitutes. A very impressive example, Ladies and Gentlemen, we all experienced
I think yesterday afternoon when after a very dramatic and high-level semifinal, Pete
Sampras was honored and celebrated for his very impressive record. For EXPO 2000, as the
host of the tournament, it has been proven that we made a very good decision to bring the
ATP Tour World Championship to Hannover. It is a global event, and besides the sport, it
is for us a very good investment in marketing and in communication. I'm really glad to say
that in 1996, and 1997, and in 1998 we improved the level of EXPO 2000, not only in
Germany, but in many countries in the world, especially in our primary markets in Europe
and in the US. We have proven, I think, that we are able to organize sufficiently a
world-class event with our partners, therefore a big thank you goes to ATP, Mark, and
especially to my friend and very, very professional partner, Ion Tiriac. World EXPO and a
World Championship, indeed a very fine combination that makes a lot of sense. The
marketing and communication value of this event exceeds our investment of EXPO by far.
This event has proven that in the time of Internet, there is and remains a big need for
live events, and this way I'm absolutely sure that the first World Exposition in Germany
will be a live event that no visitor will never, ever forget. Ladies and Gentlemen, last
but not least, I would like to thank very much our sponsors and partners. Their
contribution to the World Championship 1998 is substantial. This thank you includes the
staff of more than 2,000 people making it what it is and what it will be in 1999 here in
Hannover, a world-class event on a global level. I wish you all, Ladies and Gentlemen, a
dramatic final with excellent sport in a great atmosphere. Thank you, very much. 
 
 ION TIRIAC: For two years now, we have a lot of discussion and we have a lot of
comments in one way or another. What I think that we achieved in three years is the fact
that we discussing about this event like tennis, ATP World Championship. The best tennis
player in the world ever, probably is going to go on the records, didn't made it last
night, and I don't think that anybody in that hall or on the screen of the television have
any doubts in their mind that he try everything that is humanly possible to win this
event. We have two finalists that didn't earn their places at the lottery, but in the
tennis tournament, and they are the two best tennis players this week. I think for what
it's worth, that is going to be a great final, probably for the spectator even more
enjoyable than serve and volley, Rusedski against Ivanisevic. Going back a little bit to
history, this event was built, was inherited from the name of Masters to the ATP World
Championships, and probably by the year 2000 might have even another name if we are going
to do what we have to do and what we already did. To avoid all the speculation, and
particularly for my German friends here, I would like to say that this is a global event.
I thought global, and I think global from the first day I made it, or at least I
participate to make it what it is, and I will be unfair not to thank everybody that until
four o'clock in the morning stay here for weeks to make from this event what it is today.
I am very proud from this quality that I have. Once again, I have a partner here at the
table that represents the German state, the German government. The EXPO is a German
government organization. They are responsible for this tournament and responsible for the
running of the tournament, and I do not have, and I didn't have any friction with them,
and that's the reason we are here. Thank you. 
 
 MARK MILES: I'll make a brief statement, happily. Just a word of history. I think it
was late 1994 or early 1995 when Ion Tiriac came to us and said, "I have an
idea." It was clear that we had made the decision - after six wonderful years in
Frankfurt - it was time to find a new location. He surprised us. He said, "Hannover,
Germany. We can be partners, we should pursue a partnership with EXPO 2000." In the
first five minutes or so, I guess it's fair to say that my immediate reaction - which was
uninformed - was not that I was knocked over dead with the brilliance of the idea. But
I've come to know over time that behind that moustache and those glasses is a guy who is
really visionary, and who is undoubtedly the best promoter of tennis events in the world.
For that reason, I took more than five minutes, and we listened, and it made more and more
sense the longer we talked. The vision was clear that EXPO 2000 was going to be an
extraordinary international event, and it had a number of years to prepare itself. In
fact, for those of us who have now visited for the third year, the preparations here are
really phenomenal, give us all reason to know we'll be back a fifth time to visit the EXPO
itself, but that their mission was going to dovetail perfectly with ours, just as we want
every year to expand the stature and the recognition of this event globally, so do they.
They want to prepare the world for their coup de grace in the year 2000. We believe we had
essentially a compatible mission, and we believed that Ion Tiriac was the promoter with
whom we could have complete confidence. I think it's worked. We couldn't be more pleased
with the partnership with EXPO 2000 and Dr. Volk's organization, and with Ion Tiriac's
organization. I don't think you could have been in the hall here for the last week without
knowing that it's been a success. While everything that's been written in Germany has
certainly not been quite what we might have liked, the world outside has in particular
focused on this event, especially as you said in your primary market, in a very positive
way. So we're delighted and looking forward to a great final. 
 
Q. Are you maybe worried about the news the chance of Boris Becker and Bernie
Ecclestone could create an event or circuit against the ATP Tour?
 
 MARK MILES: No. No, I'm not. I think that's enough. If you were here all week, you
would have noticed all those things which by now should be quite clear. I think we have a
very clear strategy for the growth of the game, in my mind the only strategy for the
growth of the game. I think we have all the unity and cohesiveness and expertise to pull
it off. 
 ION TIRIAC: Maybe I comment just a little bit on the question. I think that that's
stupid to speculate anymore. The best thing ever would be that somebody would come with
other ideas for another tour and competition. The competition can make you only better. I
believe that we have the Tour that is now, or the Tour that is going to be in 2000, a
background. We are not born yesterday, and we didn't do it overnight. We did it over 20
years, 30 years, so on. A friend of mine, which have left, say about Olympics. I can tell
you about Olympics, but you don't have the time. 30 years ago, they didn't even say, Who
won the Grand Slams. They say, Who won Roland Garros? After Roland Garros, say, You won
Roland Garros or Rome? Well, Rome went down; Roland Garros went up. So if somebody comes
with a competitive whatever it is, he's very welcome. Whenever he comes into the Tour, he
is very welcome as well. But show me your background and what you want to do. If it's
evolution, it's good. Revolution, I leave a lot of revolution physically from my life. I
don't think benefit anybody out of it. 
 
Q. I'd like to ask the visionary and best promoter in the world if he thinks --
 
 ION TIRIAC: Excuse me, can you stand up when you talk to me? 
 
Q. You, too.
 
 ION TIRIAC: I am much higher than you are; I was all my life. 
 
Q. Anyway, I'd like to ask "The Visionary" if he thinks that after many, many
years in the Madison Square Garden, then six years in Frankfurt, four years in Hannover,
if to stay just one year or even two years only in the same place wouldn't be a damage to
the general organization of a big, big event? I believe it is not easy to build up an
image and a tournament, stay in one place for just one or two years, but I am not a
visionary.
 
 ION TIRIAC: Yeah, you are not. For that reason -- excuse me, what's to laugh? Is a cry.
Is a newspaper; is going to write tomorrow about me. I believe that the best asset for
this tournament would be to move every single year. I may lose the battle and they are
going to stay two years, but I think it is a mistake. I believe if you have two or three
years in advance time to prepare this event, every part of the world, not only is going to
be interested, though in the screen is going to be the event, when Schumacher and
Hakkinnen are starting, you know they're starting Formula 1, not every time you know
exactly if it's Sasuka or Mamuka. What I'm telling in saying yes, Madison Square Garden,
beautiful, I would like to do it again. I tell you what, I talk to Mr. Eccelstone couple
of days ago only, and if he's going to take it and he's going to beat for 2001 because the
hall is going to be ready in London, I do it for him. We are at a level that we arrive
with this event that has to be a jewel event at the end of the year. Doesn't matter how
you call it. For this reason, I believe that has to move. New York, it's New York. It's
Johannesburg, it's Johannesburg. It's Sydney or Tokyo, that would have to be the event of
the year, at the end of the year. 
 
Q. Do you think it will be good to change also the surface every year or good to play
every time on indoor surface?
 
 MARK MILES: There are some complications in changing the surface because, as you know,
we play basically in Europe at the end of the year, and you can't change that every year,
indoors or certain surfaces. We also currently have a week of rest for the single's guys
during the world doubles in between. So perhaps we can change the surface, but we want to
make sure the guys are ready to play when they arrive. We want to try. We think it's a
good idea in principle if we can overcome that question of making sure we have the best
possible tennis. Our idea is not necessarily to say one year must be grass, one clay, one
hard court, one indoor; it's more to move the event from region to region, from capital to
capital, and play in the natural surface. In South America, it would undoubtedly be on
clay, might be outdoors. If it's in Europe in November, undoubtedly it's going to be
indoors. 
 
Q. When do you make a decision as to the first city to get the traveling championship? 
 
 ION TIRIAC: Yesterday. 
 
Q. You made a decision?
 
 ION TIRIAC: No, we making it yesterday. 
 MARK MILES: Early in the beginning of the year, 1999. 
 
Q. Will you let us know as to what cities are bidding for it?
 
 MARK MILES: You mean at this moment? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MARK MILES: Well, I would, perhaps. I might, but we haven't started that process, so I
can't. 
 
Q. What is the chance for a player to have his coach come to the court?
 
 MARK MILES: The question is about coaching. I think we put out some information in our
regular publications. I'm happy to bring you up-to-date. We tried coaching in a particular
way over this year in a few tournaments. We evaluated the results of that in our meetings
at Bercy in Paris a few weeks ago. We came to the conclusion that at this point we don't
intend to pursue it further, primarily because we didn't really see it having a potential
impact on the game, on the public's appreciation for the game, that was sufficient to
justify the basic change of the competition going from individual to team in the normal
tournaments. I don't know if that will ever be revisited. It's possible it could. But for
now that is not an ongoing discussion for us. I don't anticipate more demonstrations next
year. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT