GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 1997
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: All right, Tommy Muster here, the second straight third-set tie break win.
Tomorrow he'll be trying to become the first lefty and first European since Guy Forget in
1991 to win the Cincinnati title. Let's get some questions. 
 
Q. Did you ever play a serve and volley on the second serve before?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I've done it. Didn't this week, so surprise me. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. I didn't. 
 
Q. You seem to be real crisp today, crisper than you've been all week. Would you agree
with that?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: What's crisp? 
 
Q. Sharp.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Oh, yeah. I mean I've played well and I was concentrate, but still
relaxed and loose in all situations. And even when I missed the shot I tried not to be
mad, and I still had a smile; that is good for me, all the way through. 
 
Q. Can you talk about playing Pete?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, that's a different game. He's a serve and volleyer, and more --
depend a lot on my return game. But also how good I serve myself, not to give him too many
chances to come in. 
 
Q. Were you aware that you had a (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I hadn't lost a point? 
 
Q. In the first set.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. I had a few chances there, but I had an ace going on the first
breakpoint, and then I didn't play very aggressive on this second one and I left the ball
a bit short. And once you give him a chance, I guess he really played sharp on that game;
he broke me. And then, of course, once he's ahead he's very tough to beat. In the third
set he played one weak game that was that break, and I played, the last games I played on
my service games were incredibly good in the tie break. I really played loose and I went
for the shots. I think I did more for the game, that's why I deserved to win. I was
hitting more winners, I was playing more inside the court. I think I played more
aggressive. So that's why I think I deserved to win that match, even if it was 7-6 in the
third. 
 
Q. Well, after you played five hours in two matches like this, how fresh are you for
tomorrow?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: No. I don't think so. Pete is not a guy that's going to make you run
forever. I mean he doesn't really like to do that, so he's going to go for quick points.
The most important thing is that I'm mentally there and concentrate on every point. It's
no so much an endurance game I would say. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't -- I don't care if I play him or not. He's the No. 1 player, he
has to win. He's used to playing with pressure and I'm just going out there to try play
well and play good matches at finals, and I'm very happy to be at my second Super 9 final
this year on hardcourts. I've played well on this surface, so why not. I just lost to a
few guys on hardcourt this year, and Pete was one of them, at the Australian Open, and if
he's playing really well, he's tough to beat anyway. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. I mean it's not really surprising to me the way I played on
hardcourt. It's just too bad that I didn't play well enough on clay to have a battle for
the No. 1, that's one thing. But maybe one Super 9 or maybe finals at the French or
something like that, I could have really got a challenge there playing for the top spots,
one or two. But unfortunately, I have to stay with my hardcourt results. 
 
Q. Have you figured out why you've played better on hardcourts than clay?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: It has a lot to do with my racquet and technics and the way I'm playing.
Playing on hardcourt and clay is a different thing, by moving and hitting the balls I'm
hitting way more flat, good shots. I hit winners tonight. There's no way you can do that
on clay, and the balls keep coming back and coming back until you miss them. I used to
play high topspin balls and angle balls keep people moving around the court, and with my
racquet I'm having now it's not really possible. And the game I'm playing it's a more
straightforward game. 
 
Q. You look like we have you've been relaxed and having fun in these matches. Is that
going to be key for you tomorrow to come out with that kind of loose attitude?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I'm not going to cramp going into the finals, it's not the first in my
career. That's the way I played all week, I'm playing happy, it's a great atmosphere, I'm
feeling good. There's nothing I have to worry. I mean going into that match makes me feel
great. 
 
Q. You have a good record against Michael. A lot of people find it difficult
(Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. I mean I like to play him, because his game suits me, and the way
he plays. And I mean he beat me this year in Indian Wells where he really played great,
but I wasn't playing that great honestly. I've played good on both sides today, backhand
and forehand. And that troubled him a lot that he couldn't really go for his shots and
open up the court and run me around like he used to do with other people. He never really
can move me like he does with others. 
 
Q. You really dominated in that tie breaker after such a close match. What's your
mindset going into a tie breaker that's going to decide the match like that?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I've been hitting balls all night, what's going to happen usually
is that he's going to be more defensive and he's going to try to play the ball more
safely. He's going to step backwards and I'm going to step forward. That's what I did.
That's why I just hit at the balls. I mean I could lose a tie break, like I won it, but
most of the time the more aggressive player wins the tie break. 
 
Q. We here rumors that you're going next week to get your helicopter pilot license?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I don't know if I can. No. I'm just having my final exam next week and I
hope I pass. I studied hard the last two months. 
 
Q. Where is that (Inaudible.)
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yeah. 
 
Q. How hard is that, helicoptering? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, it's quite a hard license especially in Austria, because we have
difficult rules and laws to follow. And it's 1200 questions you have to study and that's
quite a bit out of seven subjects. Somebody that hasn't been it school for 15 years has
quite a tough time. 
 
Q. Why do you like to do that, are you going to fly yourself around?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Yes. Yes. I hope I'll fly. No, I want to fly. I want to fly my own
helicopter. I want to know how to do it, but first you have to pass the exam. And I'd like
to do -- just a private helicopter license. I'd like to do the commercial pilot license
after this. But first I gotta pass the exam. 
 
Q. Why a helicopter instead of a regular plane?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Because I don't like to go from A to B at 30,000 feet. I like to go and
stop wherever I want. 
 
Q. Are you going to buy a helicopter?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: If nobody gives me one, I'll probably have to (laughter.). 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT