US OPEN
September 5, 1998
Thomas Muster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Seems like he had you off balance through the duration of the match. Is that how you
felt? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: What was that, the first part? 
 
Q. Seemed like he had you off balance throughout the duration of the match.
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: I wouldn't say that. I just think he served extremely well during some
parts of the match, and I think I had a lot of chances in the second set, maybe not in the
first, but in the second set I had a lot of chances to win that one. But I think it was
pretty even in some parts. I could have taken more advantage of it. I didn't think I was
off balance. But I think he was playing quite powerful the first one and a half sets. 
 
Q. How much of a factor was the weather conditions, the wind on the court?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: That's the same for both players. I mean, it wasn't that bad. I mean,
that's pretty much in the norm. 
 
Q. What did you think of him for the first time?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, I knew he was hitting hard, has a good serve. I just didn't take
advantage of his bad times during the match, I think, because when he went down a little
bit, I couldn't take advantage of it, especially in the second set. I had twice 40-15 on
my serve, which I didn't use. 
 
Q. Does he look like a player that will be considerably better in the future?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Well, definitely. I mean, he's, I don't know, 18, 19, I have no idea.
But he's definitely playing on a very good level already. I think he still can improve a
lot of things, and that makes him even a better quality player, because if he keeps
improving the bad things he has in his game, he will be even more dangerous than now. 
 
Q. A lot of guys think he's going to be a really good player. All of a sudden he
doesn't turn out to be. Have you been wrong about players you had thought would be great
players or most of the players you think are good turn out pretty well?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Some guys you can see that they're coming through. There's some coming
from nowhere, suddenly they're there. Then there's some players you have very high
expectations, they never make it. Seen a lot of this happening in the last 15 years
probably. But I think, let's put it that way, he has a good potential. 
 
Q. The other day when you played, you took an injury -- you didn't take an injury
time-out, but you had the trainer come and work on the back of your neck. Could you tell
us what effect that had on your game then or maybe today? Secondly, what about the wind?
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: Not at all. I had a little problem with a stiff neck, but that was not a
factor today. So wasn't the wind. It's just an even game, which I couldn't take advantage
of it. And obviously he was serving bigger, get more freebies. He has a very strong
backhand. I mean, he just put a lot of pressure on me. That makes it hard to place your
balls, to go for your shots. But it wasn't the greatest game I've played from my side. 
 
Q. Andre was just here. We asked him a question about the Davis Cup. He's upset that
the Davis Cup -- with the Davis Cup system in the United States. He said basically that he
felt the players ought to have more input - he said all the input, pick their own team. I
know there have been some problems in Austria. Can you just give us a general comment from
your viewpoint on the Davis Cup situation? 
 
 THOMAS MUSTER: You have professionals and you have amateurs working for Federations.
That's the problem. It's everywhere the same in the world. They don't understand what
players want. The players don't understand what officials want. They always think --
officials always think it's an honor to play for your country. In another way, it's
business. Others are professionals. You can see it from two points. I mean, it's always
the question where you compromise. If the players don't want to play, there's no Davis Cup
team. That's the way it is. I'm always putting my side on the players' side, because I
always think that way. If you don't have players, there's no Davis Cup. If you want to
have your strongest team, obviously I don't know what causes the problem here, maybe
financially, maybe time, I don't know. But obviously they have to sort it out somehow. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT