MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 17, 1997
Matt Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. David, could you talk about playing left field for two days in a row as opposed to
not playing left field on an extended basis because of the nagging things you had on your
left side?
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: Well, it will feel like Spring Training, really, because I played right
field my whole career. So I'm going to get out there today and just take the flat balls
and take some balls off the wall and just do as much work as I can today. And after that
everything is going all for my own disability. 
 
Q. How is your throwing going to be?
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: My shoulder is fine, I can throw. 
 
Q. Is there any benefit to you guys having been National League guys and having seen
some of these players before?
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: I'm not pitching, so I have no benefit, even though I know what Bobby
Bonilla likes to do or Sheffield likes to do. Really there's no benefit, because I've
never seen Livan or Hershiser. I don't care how many times you're going to see Kevin Brown
he's going to be tough every time. There's not much of a benefit for myself, personally. 
 MATT WILLIAMS: The fact that we've seen the guys before, some of them, anyway, that's
great. But as a pitcher, if you're going to make your pitches and put it where you want
to, you're going to have a good chance of getting your hitter out, anyway, so it doesn't
matter. 
 
Q. Matt, you played with infields full of Gold Glover's in San Francisco, how does this
infield rank?
 
 MATT WILLIAMS: I think Omar is the best shortstop I've ever seen. If you get a chance
to see him on an every-day basis you appreciate his ability. Tony Fernandez even though he
didn't play every day this year, he's got four under his belt, too. So it's a pretty good
infield. I think in the last two series we've played good defense on the infield and
that's certainly helped us win, so we want to continue to do that. 
 
Q. You guys were both wearing other uniforms a year ago and both were essential to your
former teams success. How long do you feel like it took for this Indians team to develop
an identity separate from the success they've had in the past? 
 
 MATT WILLIAMS: Well, I think there's certainly an adjustment period when you have new
guys come to the ball club. I think there were a lot of expectations for this club going
into the season. I don't think it started out that way, though. We struggled a little bit,
up and down, playing .500 ball for a long time. And it finally came together. I think it's
great to have cohesiveness and all that stuff, but when it's you against them, when
they're trying to get you out. It helps to have teammates like David and Marquis and the
other new guys that are here, to make the atmosphere in the clubhouse cohesive. 
 DAVID JUSTICE: I don't know at what point in which I felt like we were all of a sudden
really close. I could see that early on in April the team definitely wasn't as close as it
is now. Not in a bad way, because we've got a bunch of good guys, but the guys really
didn't know each other. But I think throughout the course of the year, having an
opportunity to really get to know each other, both on the field and off the field, I think
-- I don't know when, but all of a sudden our team now is definitely a cohesive bunch. But
I can't really say when that really happened. I know this year we had times when we played
great baseball and we had times when we didn't play that well. I don't know if it was
because our team wasn't that close, I just think we weren't playing good sometimes. But
now I think our team is really close and we're playing good baseball right now. I think
when you start winning and you've got a great bunch of guys -- we have a great bunch of
guys in the ball club. I think it's easy for us to be cohesive and that's what we have
now. 
 
Q. David, as a veteran but as a newcomer, did you feel any obligation to help speed
along that cohesive feeling? Did you take an active role in that?
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: No, not really, because the Indians were good before we got here, and
this is my first time ever being traded. Basically, I thought I was going to come over
here and be quiet and try to fit in because I didn't know what type of personality the
team had, I didn't know anything. And I definitely didn't want to come over and walk in
and be the one who set the standard on how well we were going to be this year, because I
didn't feel that was my place, they had Sandy Alomar and Tony and Omar, and all the guys
that had been here. I think I'm a natural type of rah-rah type of guy. I think I'm a
positive person. Eventually I think my personality, I just started opening up more,
because I only know one way of playing, and that's getting behind my teammates when
they're down, I want to be the one to help them get back up. And that's the only way I
know how to play. And I don't think in April I was really doing that. But I think as the
season progressed I think I started doing more of that. But I didn't feel any pressure
like I had to do it. No one made me feel that way. 
 
Q. This is for either guy or both guys, does this series set up well for the Indians
because you've gotten here without really scoring a lot of runs or having a lot of easy
wins, it seems like everything has been tough and yet here you are hitting .220 as a team?
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: This time of the year you expect for it to be tough, because every time
in the playoffs, you're going to have some tough pitching. As you all know, good pitching
always beats good hitting. I can't think back to a time when a team has won a World Series
or has hit just so great. I've yet to see a team hit .400 in playoffs. Maybe it's been
done before, but I've never seen it. Teams always have low batting averages, games are
always low scoring, because you have dominated pitching in the playoffs. But it's always
the little things that helps you win, whether it's the sacrifice fly or an important walk,
or someone laying down a bunt to put a man in scoring position, that's usually the team
that wins. But now we're in the World Series, so our team, everybody is batting zero. It's
not about batting averages in the playoffs, it's about manufacturing those runs, and
whether you hit .100 and win, that's the most important thing. I'd rather our team hit a
hundred and win then -- 
 MATT WILLIAMS: It's a prime example in the Oriole series, we pitched well and played
good defense, we took advantage of the mistakes they made and we ended up winning, and
that's what it's all about in the playoffs. You want to pitch well, and play good defense
and take advantage of any mistake that's presented to you. If we can do that we'll have a
good chance of winning. 
 
Q. Can you compare making the World Series this year with this team to making your
previous World Series appearances, how does it rank for you maybe in the satisfaction
scale?
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: I don't think any appearance beats your first time. This is my 5th World
Series appearance, my first one was the one that was amazing, because we came from last
place the year before to first place. But just for me personally it's so rewarding because
I had a season ending injury, that I didn't know if I was going to be able to play again.
But to come back and play this year and have a solid season and then to help our team be
where we are right now, I mean it's been everything I prayed for has been answered. And
now the ultimate is to win the World Series. But this team is similar to the Braves team.
We had a great bunch of guys that played hard over there. We have the same thing over
here. This team has all star players in the clubhouse, but the atmosphere is not one of
anybody walking around feeling better than anybody else. Everybody walks around the same,
and I think really enjoy being around each other. That's the same thing we had in Atlanta.
So I think this appearance is probably second out of all my five, outside of the first
one, this would be second. And the third will be the one -- well, I can't say if -- it
would probably be second on the list because of it's so exciting in Cleveland. Our fans
are so incredible that I think that's why this one falls second. Because I just know how
much it would mean to our city and those fans if we were to take it all the way.  
 
Q. How much of a difference have the fans made in Cleveland, how much will they make in
the series.
 
 DAVID JUSTICE: I don't know how our fans can root any harder for us. They're there
every day, they're there for us. But I think it's really neat for the Cleveland Indians
and Florida Marlins to be playing the World Series. I think everybody is tired of seeing
the Braves (laughter.) I just think around the country I think a lot more people are
really excited because it's just different. It's the Indians against the Marlins, who
would have ever thought that? Not only that, we were eating today down at South Beach and
just to see the people here in Florida so excited about the Marlins. I really like that
kind of stuff, because so many peoples lives are being affected right now just the fact
that the Marlins are in the World Series. And I like to see that. I just think it's great.
I think this series already is great and we haven't even started yet. I think it's going
to get better. 
 MATT WILLIAMS: Well, the fact that I stand out there at third base every night and play
nine innings or ten innings or eleven innings and go home with a splitting headache is
attributed to our fans (laughter.) Because it is so loud everyone on our team goes home
with a headache, but we like that, it's nice to go home with that. They've been
tremendous, they're raucous, yet they're knowledgeable, they're there ever day to spout
our team and give us all they can. We certainly want to go out there and give them all we
can. 
 
Q. Both you guys have played in this stadium before, what's it like, are there any
peculiarities, do you like it?
 
 MATT WILLIAMS: I think as a right-handed hitter here you certainly have to -- I liken
it a little bit to Fenway, where you just have to put the left field -- the big wall in
left field out of your mind, because it's easy to try to hit that ball to left field where
you're not supposed to be doing that. It's a fair ballpark. It's big in center field and
it certainly isn't easy to get the ball out of right field, either. It's a fair ballpark
for pitchers. And we want to make sure we keep them in the ballpark and we'll be okay. 
 DAVID JUSTICE: I think it's a nice ballpark. Like Matt said it's a fair ballpark. There
won't be any cheap homeruns if there are any hit, except probably to left field, anywhere
else you've pretty much got to hit it. I've never seen this stadium really packed. It will
be interesting to see how loud it can get or the difference from that standpoint. But you
can see the ball pretty good, I think it's a nice stadium to play in. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT