NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Tasha Pointer
Shawnetta Stewart
C. Vivian Stringer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH C. VIVIAN STRINGER: I thought it was a very good defensive game. On our part, you
could probably tell if and when we missed assignments -- I'm sure that were Pat could tell
the same, it would have been nice if we had been able to execute better today. That speaks
more to Tennessee's defense; it was aggressive. And I thought we were a little impatient.
But I was extremely proud of our team and the way these young ladies came to play. We
played hard, kept coming back at them. We just were missing some shots, actually some
pretty good shots, and unfortunately, someone has to lose, and we did not come here to be
the losers. I did feel that we could have beaten Tennessee, but Tennessee is great, they
are good, they are capable of playing the way they need to play at that particular time. I
mean, so, I think that's what continues to give them the position that they deserve. So
that's why I will keep on saying Tennessee in the breath of National Champions. There's
something very special about that team, but there's something very special about these
young ladies who started the journey four years ago. They realized their dream, and to
come into Philadelphia and actually play in this Final Four, I just wish we could have
been a little more calm, just a little more calm right -- a little bit earlier, because I
think that we could be smiling right now. We just had some situations where passes were
made; we didn't move on them or found ourselves tentative. Again, that's attributed to
Tennessee defense. Those turnovers were converted into points. And we felt that as we
looked at it, Tennessee didn't get the shots on our defense. They had the same
opportunities, which on our side of it, is inexcusable because we didn't block out; we
were trying to rebound with them and we know better. So that's probably one of the things
that hurts. We don't worry about anyone else's determination of anything so much as what
did we need to do them. You know, we did, but there will probably be some area of the game
always that coaches as well as players will be able to look at and say, "we lost it
here"; "we lost it there." If I had to point to something, I would say
probably second opportunity, chance points; that was the biggest reason that we find
ourselves talking here right now. But I'm sure that we'll be back and we'll play tough.
We'll have to come to St. Louis, hopefully. 
 
Q. Shawnetta, obviously playing your last college game, you would have liked to go out
a little differently, but can you be able to pull back and think about the experience as a
whole at this point as this being a very fitting way to finish off a college career in
Philadelphia? 
 
 SHAWNETTA STEWART: You know, I'm glad that our team got to this point. I wish we could
have got a little farther. I think we played very well. We played, you know, with our
chest sticking out and we wasn't going to back down to nobody. That's the type of attitude
we have. I mean, this whole experience has been great. I'm glad I had opportunities of
experiencing such a deal like this in Philadelphia, in my hometown. But obviously, you're
only here for one reason, and that's to win the whole thing, and, you know, that was our
goal. I'm very disappointed, but at the same time, I'm very happy that I got a chance to
play on this team. This coaching staff has been terrific, and just the players, sharing
experiences with them. You know, I couldn't ask for a better team than this one. If I had
to make my decision all over, you know, it would be the same thing, so, you know, I'm glad
the way my performance has been all year, and my career as a whole. I think Coach Stringer
has built me up at as the type of player that I am, and I was just telling her, she's the
coach that drove me every day in practice, and she just really brought the best person and
player out of me. Although we lost, I got a sense of fulfillment within myself; that I
have been a success story, because, you know, I didn't have to choose this way to go. But
just with the backing of my parents and my brother and, you know, and these guys right
here. Without them, you know, there wouldn't be no Shawnetta Stewart. I'd just like to
thank them, and that's basically it.  
 
Q. Could you talk about what it was like walking off the floor that last time? I saw
you talking with Coach Stringer, maybe if you could tell me what you guys were talking
about? 
 
 SHAWNETTA STEWART: It was just the play that happened on the floor just before I fouled
out. You know, I really can't tell you, you know, the feelings that I was feeling that
last moment, but I'm quite sure when, you know, a couple days go past, this whole
experience, I'll just look at it and take it for what it's worth, but it's hard to
describe in words, you know, the last final moment of your career. But I'm happy to move
on. I think I've got bigger and brighter things ahead in my future, but nothing can take
this appearances away experience away from me. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the problems that Tennessee's press presented? 
 
 TASHA POINTER: I think Tennessee's press is just like ours; they trap. I think that we
were impatient at times and they just capitalized off our mistakes. 
 
Q. Tasha, we've read so much about how close this team was, and you see the seniors
going out, could you just please comment on what the seniors have meant to this program?
And if you could, just looking ahead a little bit to next year and what are your thoughts,
are you optimistic for maybe a return? 
 
 TASHA POINTER: I wouldn't come back if I wasn't optimistic about returning. I think
that's every player's dream, to continue to achieve greater things. Last year we made it
to the Elite 8 and my dream was to come to the Final Four and try to win the National
Championship. I think the seniors are the people who actually made Coach Stringer's vision
come true because they bought into it first; and after they bought it first, they helped
recruit us. The good thing about -- people always say that Coach Stringer and her staff
are great recruiters, but they are great people in general and the student athletes that
they bring in are great recruiters as well. The seniors helped sell me on Rutgers'
program, the academic side of things. And yes, we're going to miss them because they
helped out in ways that you can never imagine, just taking the burden and stress off the
coaches, but not only the coaches and the underclassmen, just showing us the way. Because
when they first came in, they didn't really have guidance or leadership besides the
coaches, and they were the leaders as far as my junior class. And I think myself and my
junior class have to carry that torch as well.  
 
Q. What did Tennessee do that took you guys off your game, from the middle part of the
second half on? 
 
 TASHA POINTER: I think that we turned the ball over probably two or three straight
times and they got the opportunity to capitalize off it. The game of basketball is all
about spurts, and if you get your spurt at the right time, then you're fine. And I think
that we started committing fouls or something like that, and they just hit -- they made
like -- 22 or 29 freethrows or something like that. That's a lot, you know what I'm
saying. In the second half I'm pretty sure they made -- what I think Randall only missed
one or something like that. You can't win like that. You can't win with them at the
freethrow line, and that's not getting to the freethrow line as well.  
 
Q. When you consider that Tennessee perennially comes to the Final Four, where they are
and where Rutgers are, how can you compare where you are in your program compared to a
program like Tennessee? 
 
 COACH C. VIVIAN STRINGER: I don't like the idea of one step at a time. You know, in
that case we shouldn't even have shown up and just come on up here and see how long we can
make this game last and just go home. So I have tremendous respect for the Tennessee
program. Like I said before, with Pat and the great program that it is, I just am
impatient because I just don't believe that we have to go through those steps. I just felt
like this was the moment, this was the time. And yet, I guess nature tends to have its
way. And I look at some teams and come in and they just get it, they just do it. They show
up, get theirs, and they are gone; you never hear about them again. I didn't know why we
couldn't be that team, especially because we've given so much hard work, as all teams do.
I don't know, I'd like to hope that like everything else, we have each year taken one
provision, but we are missing some major players. You know, I've just felt that now was
the time. You know, maybe next year it might be at -- the strangest times that might be.
Maybe we'll be free and not be tight and just go ahead and play our game. You know,
because aside from the fact that Tennessee did play well, we were also a little tight, and
I don't think that Tennessee was. Maybe their normal tightness, but heck, after all this
is how many times for them in the Final Four. And even if some of them had not played, the
truth of the matter is that they know they do play. For us, I can't tell you enough, but
that we seem to remember well, we seem to learn very well, and we've taught ourselves a
lot of things that we don't let happen again. So maybe we just had to come to the Final
Four to know the next time, the next step, and what can I say, I don't know.  
 
Q. How is this Final Four appearance different from the other appearances that you had
with other teams, other programs? 
 
 COACH C. VIVIAN STRINGER: Each of them have their own personalities. And I have felt
that at each Final Four, we really did have a chance to win; so I can't say that. It
seemed to be a lot more things were going on. I don't know, I sort of knew that, you know,
there would be a lot of pressure pulls on you here and there. It almost seemed like the
game itself was incidental compared to what everyone else is here for. And quite honestly,
we are very tired. We never felt like we ever settled down. We got in here at the last
second and we've been hopping ever since then. So lacking sleep and not feeling totally
prepared, I don't know what I would do differently right now, but I bet the next time we
come close to this, we'll be a lot more settled and maybe we can get somewhere where we
don't have the telephone and all those other things. Tennessee is probably a little used
to that and probably a little more organized. I thought that we were just exhausted. 
 
Q. How much of a factor was Kara Lawson, particularly her ability to penetrate and kind
of break into your zone a little bit? 
 
 COACH C. VIVIAN STRINGER: Well, I was more disturbed with us, not with Kara, I didn't
anticipate that we could do that. She does -- she shoots it real well, and when you shoot
it in that range -- she's smart. I really give her a lot of credit. But I was probably
more disturbed with the way we came in and I just thought that we for the first however
many minutes did not play like we were capable of playing because even as we were making
mistakes, they weren't scoring as effectively. But Kara Lawson, she's a big-time player.
She has a strong body to penetrate well. She hurt us. She hurt us a lot, she just did. But
no one should be penetrating our zones, period. No one, and that means Kara as well, and
she did and that's a real credit to her. 
 
Q. Coach, when you were down by 2 at the half, what did you say to the players getting
ready for the second half? 
 
 COACH C. VIVIAN STRINGER: Well, you know, the truth of the matter is that if you hit
the shots, half the shots that we had, if they didn't get the second opportunities, I
don't know how many points, but I get bet you it might not seen have been double digits.
The shot opportunities that we were getting were the second opportunities. It was our
fault, because, I mean, what makes us think that we're going to go in there and jump on
them. They are much bigger than us. What I was disturbed about was us just not addressing
the fundamentals of the game, we were staying down, did a good job of eyeing and knowing
where people are, but there's no way in the world that you can -- you force an error,
force them to shoot and turn around, watch it come out and get a second. They were getting
opportunities underneath the basket, and I was very angry about that and wanted us to make
it very clear that we heard that by attacking the boards at the beginning, and I thought
that we did. I thought that Tennessee did step up the pressure, and then we hesitated. We
just hesitated with passes that we should have made, and it ended up having turnovers and
then they came back down and ran. And like Tasha said, the game is won or lost in spurts.
They knock it off 3; next thing you know, they are up. And the bad part about it is
probably in all of our hearts, not being foolish, you know, this was the best chance in
the world, because one, it was in Philadelphia; hits close to home. You can't say there
was a sea of orange or anything like that. It's probably that mental side that we have not
gotten over the hump about. And so until we really handle that side of it, and when we
handle that side of it, the other part of it will be fine. That's the more difficult part.
And I should point out, though, there's a whole lot of teams that are making their first
time here, that I think would have a most difficult time against anyone, needless to say,
Tennessee, in this setting at the Final Four. If it's just a neutral setting, maybe we're
talking about something different. But I'm proud, and I just remember one thing, this team
does learn very well and we do remember, and hopefully at the next time we have an
opportunity to play that game, we can represent ourselves better than what we did tonight. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT