U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Jared Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Reasonably straightforward from the score point of view, did you feel really on your
game today and confident out there?

JARED PALMER: Well, yeah, I guess I did. The wind was -- early in the match was kind of
tricky. On the one side with the wind, it was a little difficult. I don't know -- to hit
the ball, I mean, I felt like -- I felt good if I started the point out and got into a
rally with him, I felt like he couldn't hurt me too much. I could win from my chance to
come in. But I don't know, yeah, I felt pretty good, and I started off, you know, well.
And then I lost my serve twice. I was up a break twice and lost it. So that was kind of --
I mean, I didn't -- I was a little frustrated at that point because I thought I should be
ahead of him. But, you know, then I just stayed in there, managed to play pretty well.

Q. Is it sort of strange kind of flashback in a way suddenly playing somebody who is a
college player, and it is a scene that you left behind a few years ago?

JARED PALMER: I really didn't feel that because I didn't go to school with him -- I
mean, when he was playing. And I don't know him other than in this setting. I mean, I have
never seen him play before, and -- no, that didn't really -- I didn't really think that,
you know. I knew that he was a pretty -- obviously, a pretty good player, really
consistent and just try to stay aggressive.

Q. Did you see any problems at all between the way he plays and maybe yourself when you
first came out on the Tour after the NCAA's; do you remember what that was like in --

JARED PALMER: Well, we played different styles of game. He is more a baseliner and more
of a serve and volleyer. But, yeah, I guess, when we first come out, maybe you don't
believe as much that you belong, you know, in the second week of a Grand Slam and maybe
that takes a certain amount of time to adhere to, to get used to it, maybe that played a
part today.

Q. Did it take you a while to feel that way about yourself?

JARED PALMER: I am still not there. But, yeah, no, I mean, I know when I first came out
-- yeah, just have to -- it takes awhile to get used to the fact that you are playing now
at the highest level and -- it takes -- it is different for everybody, but I know for me
it took awhile to get used to.

Q. How do you get received on the Tour when you come out here as the NCAA champion?
Does it mean that much?

JARED PALMER: It doesn't mean that much, no.

Q. They probably might even -- it might even motivate them more or something?

JARED PALMER: In my experience, it hasn't meant that much. I mean, there are a lot of
non-Americans on the Tour that, to them, that means nothing. If you win the NCAA, you
probably did it when you were at least, you know, 19 or 20 and for a lot of the guys on
the Tour, who don't go to school, they start doing good things on the Tour much younger
than that, so it is not -- I don't think it is that big a deal.

Q. What kind of a transition do you have to make now between the sort of guys you have
played the first three rounds -- next round is whole another league?

JARED PALMER: I don't know. Yeah, I had a great draw, but I also feel like it is -- you
still have to win the matches and I think I played as well as I have played for a while,
although, I think that without a doubt, I will have to play better. I don't know who I
play next -- I will have to play pretty well.

Q. Agassi or Edberg.

JARED PALMER: Is that right? That is what I thought.

Q. You do have -- if you do have to play Andre first of all, have you played him
before?

JARED PALMER: No, I haven't.

Q. What do you think you would try to do to control his many strengths?

JARED PALMER: I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Obviously, I can't just rally
with him. I am going to have to take some chances; try and serve well, serve smart. You
know, if I play him, I don't know. I mean, Edberg is still there.

Q. Jared, you practiced with him at Davis Cup and you have seen him play a number of
times. Do you have any particular strategy you'd like to go in with or have you picked up
any weaknesss when you are out there watching him at Davis Cup do you; ever say, this is
what I should do versus Andre?

JARED PALMER: The guy doesn't have many weaknesss, if any, and I haven't really thought
about it. I didn't really expect to be playing him. But I am -- I don't know what to say.
He is a phenomenal player and there is not a whole lot you can break down or -- I just
think that it comes to whether you can raise or, in my case, raise my level for the day
and get some breaks and play a consistent match the whole match.

Q. Are you at the point in your career where you are mentally prepared to go out and
play a big breakthrough match like that?

JARED PALMER: I hope so. I don't -- I feel pretty good, but I guess we won't know until
we get out there. I have played some big names in singles. I haven't quite done the job,
so maybe this will be another opportunity.

Q. What is your best win to date and has Gully talked to you about Davis Cup?

JARED PALMER: My best win would be over Martin in the finals of Pinehurst. And no, Tom
hasn't.

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT