MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 23, 1999
Joe Torre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does your line-up change with Maddux pitching tonight instead of Glavine?

JOE TORRE: Leftfield is the only change. Ledee is playing there instead of Curtis.

Q. Can you fill us in on the Sojo situation and the roster and all that?

JOE TORRE: Yeah. I'm sort of doing this hesitantly. We -- I talked to Luis last night,
and Luis assured me he would be able to be back by Game 3, so knowing how important he is
-- and then don't get me wrong, it's not to play defense for Chuck -- I mean that's not
the only reason I want him back. But Bellinger's on our club, basically as a pinch runner.
I'm reluctant to do that now because he's our backup infielder. It releases him, also.
Nothing against Spencer, I think the second infielder is more important to us. So
hopefully we'll see Luis on Tuesday, but that's the reason we decided to go without him
the first two days. We just feel that he's important for us.

Q. Where was he when you talked to him?

JOE TORRE: I talked to him in New York last night. He was going to Venezuela today, to
take care of all the arrangements of the funeral.

Q. What was your reaction to the Commissioner's Office declining your wish to get an
extra player to take his place?

JOE TORRE: Well, I didn't anticipate that was going to be anything other than what Bud
Selig decided to do. I think it's probably the right decision only because, you know, you
open up a can of worms. What's important? What isn't important? I remember back in '96
when we were rained out of the first game of the World Series and having been rained out
we lost our workout day here in Atlanta, and I had tried to lobby for getting the off day
just so we could work out, you know, in a new ballpark. He said no to that. So I knew that
we weren't going to be able to let that fly. Again, I don't disagree with that.

Q. When did you find out you were getting Maddux instead of Glavine, and what was your
reaction?

JOE TORRE: I found out -- I got to the ballpark about 2:30 today. Between 2:30 and 3,
one of the clubhouse kids came over and gave me a line-up and Maddux' name was in it and
he mentioned Glavine was sick. You understand those things happen. Just because it's a
World Series, doesn't mean people aren't allowed to get sick. So I hadn't really made a
line-up out anyway up to that point, even yesterday I didn't tell the players even though
they pretty much anticipate what I was going to do because we've done it all year.

Q. Can you talk about your decision to leave Irabu off, and does that leave you at all
susceptible if one of the starters gets in trouble?

JOE TORRE: I wasn't sure as of Thursday what I was going to do. Plus side, Irabu
pitched very well against the Braves, I know it was only spring training, but he pitched
four or five innings against him, I think it was last spring. The decision to make the
change was because of this National League ballpark, you know, in Game 3 in Boston, Roger
was knocked out early and we just put Irabu out there and let him pitch. Can't do that in
a National League ballpark. You need to pinch hit. And you're going to probably need that
pitcher more than one time, so because he is pitching or has pitched out of the bullpen, I
think he gives us a little more flexibility where we can use him more than one time as
opposed to worrying about not having that extra starter. If we needed another game to be
started, Mendoza is capable of doing that.

Q. Can you just give us your impressions of Rocker and just personality-wise, if you
can contrast him to Mariano?

JOE TORRE: They're a little bit different. Mo is a -- I don't want to say calm, because
you know he's not calm inside -- Rocker is what short relievers are all about. They've
always been colorful people, for the most part. I get a kick out of him. Again, you have
to sort of dismiss some of the things that he might be saying critical of fans and the
like, you know, he's got a lot of confidence. He doesn't mind telling people. You know,
the thing about it, he talks about it and is able to put his money where his mouth is. So
I respect his ability, and I understand his exuberance. We don't really react or overreact
to what people say because we know the game has to be played on the field, but I think
he's good for baseball, that type of individual.

Q. Is David Cone now as strong as he was around the time of the perfect game in July?

JOE TORRE: I think David is fine. That particular game is very special. That's a
once-in-a-lifetime, whether you're David Cone who is middle to late 30s, or he's 25. David
Cone, over his career, has thrown a lot of pitches, and I knew early on that game there
was something special about it because he didn't hit anybody early in the game and it
wasn't that he tries to hit people. But trying to find that release point sometimes, he's
a little wild with a splitter or a breaking ball. But arm-wise, with the rest he's had
over the last month, I would say he's as durable as he's been all year right now.

Q. Do you think it's appropriate that this series has been hyped as the decision-maker
for the Team of the Decade? To a large extent, the Braves, what they've done, what you
guys have done, do you think that's right?

JOE TORRE: Well, I guess you need to give it a label, you know. The game we played in
Boston with Martinez pitching against Clemens, I enjoyed that hype even though it didn't
live up to the advanced notices. But the Braves, I have a great deal of respect for what
Bobby's done here during the '90s. I know he's taken some abuse for only winning one World
Series; that's not too bad. Especially because I hadn't been in one for 30 years, I
appreciate only one World Series. But whatever, you know, we just can't get caught up in
it. I think it's something we look back on and it's something we'd be proud of if we won
another World Series, that we could look back on and say the '90s were very special for
us. But I think with the turn of the century coming, I think we're making a lot out of
what's happening, and probably with good reason. The last World Series, and the thing I
like, to think that the two clubs that are in it are the two that deserve to be in it.
They had the best record in the National League; we had the best record in the American
League. Supposedly we're supposed to meet. We just hope this World Series lives up to
expectations. When I say that, I'd like to see, you know, somebody win the World Series
instead of having something negative jump out as the reason the other club lost.

Q. You've had to handle Chuck Knoblauch rather gingerly as far as his psyche goes. You
got him to the point where he was accepting the possibility that Sojo could replace him.
Now that he's gone for a couple games, how do you think he'll respond to that?

JOE TORRE: I think he's fine. He understands. He wants to play nine innings. I think he
just showed me respect to the point of if that's what I want to do, that's fine with him.
But, again, Chuck is not going to say are you going to send somebody out there in the
ninth inning, he's not going to come up to me and say that, but he'll understand I might
say that to him once in a while. I don't anticipate doing it here in the next couple of
days. I hope I have the ability to do it at least -- well, depends what happens, but at
least four times because that means we're in a position where we're winning a ball game.
That's like bringing in a closer. You're not going to do that unless you're ahead.

Q. What were your impressions of the All-Century Team and what players were you
particularly happy for?

JOE TORRE: Well, I think it's -- I get a chance to see my friend Bob Gibson, I think
that's wonderful. Again, I haven't looked up and down the list, but I know one thing, that
there was some talk -- and this was early on, I guess about Pete Rose, who I have a great
deal of respect for as a player because nobody played harder to win than Pete Rose. But in
terms of Pete Rose instead of someone and one of those instead-ofs was Stan Musial, to me,
Stan Musial belonged on that team because of what he has accomplished in his life, and
just player-wise, the ability to do a lot of things. I didn't think that was, you know,
fair to put Pete in that category. I think Pete's in a category by himself. He could play
any one of the positions and qualify.

Q. What's the biggest adjustment your team has to make in cold weather, playing
cold-weather baseball?

JOE TORRE: I don't know that -- we played one -- I don't anticipate it to be colder
than it was in Boston for Game 5. It was very, very cold up there. And El Duque's the same
pitcher. So I think the question that he has to answer, he answered there. If he's not
right tonight, I don't think we can blame the weather for it. But I think it's just a
matter of, you know, playing our game and not trying to be distracted. The weather could
very well be a distraction, but I think playing in New York, we like to condition
ourselves not to have things we have no control of distracting us or trying to use that as
an excuse. We don't like to do that. So hopefully, I think the pitchers, first off, have
an advantage in the cold weather. The pitchers have an easier time pitching than the
hitters have hitting.

Q. What were some of the things you did in your first couple years to end the talk that
the clubhouse was like The Bronx Zoo?

JOE TORRE: Clarify that.

Q. The kind of things you did to calm the clubhouse down in your first couple years in
New York.

JOE TORRE: I noticed like everyone else, when you read a story about the Yankees, there
was one fight or another, or George screaming at somebody or somebody screaming at George
or Billy doing something. I realized a lot of those things weren't baseball-related other
than it involved the Yankees. So in coming in here, I definitely had an idea what I wanted
to do. I wanted to have try to have everybody concentrate on baseball, and I would help,
as best I can, to eliminate as many distractions to keep us from concentrating on baseball
out of the clubhouse. And that was important for me, because I know -- and, you know, you
read or you talk to players, people could get a little distracted and sort of had this
built-in excuse, if they allow that to bother them, that that's the reason they couldn't
concentrate, blah, blah, blah. We can't do that. So I think that was the one really plan I
had, coming in and talking to the club, was media-related, distraction-related. If I have
anything negative to say about a player, I just try to assure them they're going to get it
from me first. Not that I wouldn't tell the media, but they're not going to read about it
there or hear about it there first. So far it's worked well, and I think I'm close to
being able to -- have been able to do that all the time.

Q. Can you talk about Mo, how he was able to shake off that one bad period you call
hiccups in July when he blew three out of five? Also how he might not have been able to
get up over that so easily early in his career.

JOE TORRE: Well, Mo is a special guy. He came in in very critical situations for us in
'96. '97 he had trouble functioning as a closer early on. It's different. You don't have
somebody behind you ready to pick you up like we had Wetteland in '96. We kept saying
you're going to get the ball, I don't care how many times you spit it up. You're going to
get the ball. You're going to keep getting the ball. At the end of '97, he gave up the
home run, we had a one-run lead against Cleveland. He gave up the win to tie the game.
They went on to win the game and they beat us the next day. Mo was very low. He felt he
let everybody down. That was part of the growing process for him. We have to credit Dennis
Eckersley because of the way he came through, the home run by Kirk Gibson, which I think
he was a great role model for all closers realizing you're a part of what happened as
opposed to be it could be the worst thing that ever happened in your life. When you're out
there, it's not always going to be good. Even though you anticipate good things happening
when you're closers out there. This year when he lost a couple of games, we thought he
struck Franco out in New York on that Saturday afternoon for strike three, then he hit a
little line drive to right centerfield and we lose the ball game. So, sure, that was a
blown save. Then right after the break against the Braves, he did the same thing. But we
-- Mel and I talk to him early on in '98 because of what happened in '97. He has been the
guy that takes the ball and goes out there with that attitude that, "I'm going to
give you whatever I have today. If it's good enough, fine. If it isn't, fine. I'll come
back tomorrow." I think it's been more of a mental approach to him once he got used
to the closer's role. He was able to take it and run with it. There was no problem this
year. He just gave up a couple saves and that's it. It didn't change anything or we didn't
say anything to him to have him change anything.

End of FastScripts…1            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT