AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 2, 1997
Mike Hargrove
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you talk to Wright after the first inning or did someone else talk to him?

MIKE HARGROVE: Once I found my voice -- Mark Wiley and I both talked to him. Not
extensively, just what is gone is gone, go out and throw your stuff, nothing extra,
nothing anything more than that. Just be you and let things happen that are going to
happen. Anyway, he went out and threw strikes and was very good.

Q. Joe said Monday they won a game that you should have won, and now it's probably the
other way around?

MIKE HARGROVE: Yeah, I think that Joe's probably right. It almost makes you a little
nervous if you break out on top right away. Anytime in baseball if you score a lot of runs
early, I don't mean 10 or 11, but 3, 4, 5, runs the first couple of innings, unless you
add on fairly soon after that, you let the other team mentally back in the game and score
a run here or there and start getting momentum, as we did when we scored the five. I think
it happened to both teams. It happened to us in Game 1. I think it's what happened to the
Yankees in Game 2.

Q. Were you tempted to leave Wright in for another inning or had he had enough at that
point?

MIKE HARGROVE: The way he finished the 6th inning with a strikeout, he pitched a strong
6th inning, he was going to go back out for the 7th. He was at a hundred pitches. If you
have followed our team at all this year, for those of you who have, you'll know that
consistently this year when our pitchers have gotten -- our starting pitchers have gotten
us in at the 6th inning and been at a hundred pitches or more, and if there's a long rest
between that inning and -- ending and the next one starting, we usually go with our
bullpen. That -- Jaret was at a hundred pitches. He pitched the 6th inning. He really had
done his job. And the cool temperature, and he sat a long time, we felt the best thing for
us at that point in time, the ball club and Jaret, was to go to the bullpen.

Q. Mike, are you concerned about the bullpen at all?

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I'm not jumping up and down with joy right now, but I think that
in Game 1 and 2 our bullpen struggled a little bit. But I think knowing them and their
track record, I feel pretty good about our bullpen. I think we have a couple of weaknesses
in our bullpen, but I think that we have people that can adjust to those -- recover from
those weaknesses, so we'll see.

Q. Talk about Saturday's swing game with the series tied and the confidence or whatever
you feel about having Charles Nagy on the mound?

MIKE HARGROVE: Charlie Nagy has been good for us for a lot of years, he really has. I
know he hasn't had a lot of success this year against the Yankees, but I think, as you've
seen the last two games, that the playoffs are entirely a different deal. And so I'm
looking very much forward to Charlie pitching for us. Charlie has carried the load for our
ball club, as I said, for a while, and I don't know how confident you can be in these
playoffs as whacky as these games have been so far. But we feel good with Charlie pitching
for us, as I'm sure that the Yankees feel good about David Wells' pitches for them. I
think both clubs are not approaching this game overconfident by any stretch of the
imagination. Both clubs know we've got our work cut out for us, and we'll go with that.

Q. Mike, could you just address the poise that Jaret showed after that rough start? And
you're familiar with it, but the rest of the country really got a look at what Jaret could
do on the mound.

MIKE HARGROVE: Well, I'm sure that Jaret was scared to death that first inning. I know
that I was (LAUGHTER.) Not really. I felt all along that if Jaret could get by the first
inning, that he had a good chance of doing what he did. And that's what we've seen from --
when I said earlier that he reminds me of a young Roger Clemens, that's what I was talking
about. Obviously he has great stuff. But I was talking about the ability that he has not
to lose his focus, composure. He projects a very good image or positive image, aggressive
image to the other team. And we saw all those things after the first inning. Really saw it
in the first inning. But once he got past the first inning, he got the ball down the
strike zone, got a lot of ground balls, struck out a few people, showed everybody else
really what we've been saying all along, this kid has a chance to be something very, very
special.

Q. Were you guys having a little problem with a fan behind the dugout in the last
inning?

MIKE HARGROVE: Yeah, a couple, three guys that were sitting right behind our dugout had
been fairly abusive the whole game. But it turned a little vicious and a little foul
toward the end of the game. I asked the guards to see what they could do to keep those
guys quiet. People have the right to say what they want to say, but you don't need to hear
that kind of stuff.

Q. Mike, two outs, one on in the fourth, Pettitte had problems, were you surprised how
fast it turned around on him?

MIKE HARGROVE: I think Pettitte was surprised how fast it turned on him, as Eric Plunk
was surprised how fast it turned on him. The situations were very similar. Andy Pettitte
doesn't usually allow that to happen. He's a tremendous pitcher, a tremendous athlete, and
we're glad tonight's over.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT