MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 6, 2000
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TIGER WOODS: It blew a little bit today. You know, it was very interesting because
today you hit some clubs some distances that you're not quite used to. 1st hole, soft
7-iron from 242. No. 10, 136, I hit a soft 7-iron. Over a hundred yards' discrepancy
between the two holes, same club. That's kind of the way the day was. You had to play by
feel and try and shape your shots correctly.  
 
Q. How did that low ball go for you today? 
 
 TIGER WOODS: I hit it pretty good today. I hit it pretty solid. Kept it low at times;
high at others when I had to. Overall, I'm very pleased the way I worked the ball into the
wind, rode it when I had to.  
 
 TIGER WOODS: 5, I hit a driver and a 5-iron to about 50 feet, 2-putted there.  
 
 TIGER WOODS: 8, hit a 6-iron in the left bunker, blasted long, tried to make about a
12-footer there and missed it. Birdied 10. I hit a driver and a 7-iron to about 12 feet,
made that. On 11, I hit a 7-iron, 156, to about 12 feet again, right below the hole, made
that. Par 5, what, 15?  
 
 TIGER WOODS: Driver and a 3-wood short, right. Pitched up to about, oh, a foot and a
half, made that. Bogeyed 17. I hit a 3-wood off the tee, a 7-iron short left, chipped up
past the hole about 12 feet and missed it.  
 
Q. How did you play 18?
 
 TIGER WOODS: 18, I hit a drive, started down the right middle, hit a draw with it
unfortunately. Ended up in the left rough. Had 240 in the front, hit a 4-iron, just tried
to squeeze it up there in the gallery somewhere. Turned out okay. Chip shot from the
right, first cut. Chipped it down there to just about ten feet, just missed it on the
bottom edge, pulled it.  
 
Q. You made a long par back there somewhere. 
 
 TIGER WOODS: Made a good one on 14.  
 
Q. How long was that?
 
 TIGER WOODS: Made about an 18-footer straight up the hill.  
 
Q. What's the hardest part of playing in the wind here?
 
 TIGER WOODS: It's not so bad if you're play in wind like this, but when you add in
elevation changes here. It just makes it that much more difficult, the fact that you can't
throw the ball in there downwind and expect it to stop right away. On certain holes you
have to allow for 30, 40 yards of roll. 17, I was joking around with Stevie, probably
would have been a better play for me to hit a low sniping 7-iron, run it up short. I
didn't quite have the shot for a 6-iron. I had to throw it up too high with a 6-iron, just
didn't feel like it was the right club. I felt like 7 was the right club, but I hit the
wrong trajectory. 
 
Q. What was your second shot on No. 9, do you remember that?
 
 TIGER WOODS: Driver. 
 
Q. Driver?
 
 TIGER WOODS: Yes. Just hit it left rough, just drilled it.  
 
Q. How many yards out do you think you were?
 
 TIGER WOODS: Let's see. I had 254 to front. I rolled it in the right bunker.  
 
Q. Isn't this kind of what you expect here, though? It's not like you're playing
Carnoustie fairways. Pretty much the way this is supposed to play?
 
 TIGER WOODS: This golf course is designed for this wind. I guess the Kona Wind is the
opposite wind, that's when this golf course really becomes difficult. This golf course is
not designed for that wind. On 18, it's not designed to hit the ball straight into a
galing wind. You're supposed to ride that wind from right-to-left, down the hill. We had
to play that wind a couple times last year, but it wasn't blowing this hard.  
 
Q. You talked yesterday about playing every tournament to win. What happens when you
see Parnevik 6-under and I think you were even or one over at that point?
 
 TIGER WOODS: Even. 
 
Q. Do you start doing anything differently? You talked about how a 73 or 74 might shoot
you out the tournament in one round. Here's a guy running away. 
 
 TIGER WOODS: I mean, these conditions, you've just got to keep playing along. Under
these conditions, 6-under-par is obviously wonderful playing, but there's still some holes
left. Under these conditions out here, it's very difficult to keep making birdies, keep
going because it's just blowing that hard. Marginal shots just won't get it done. You
know, fortunate for us, we're in a field that we were able -- I made a couple birdies
coming out early on the Back 9, was able to get somewhere near the lead. There's so many
holes to be played. With the forecast supposed to be predicting the wind blowing harder on
Sunday, something like 50, if that's the case, you just need to keep making pars and
plodding along. If you keep plodding along, making a few birdies here and there, you'll be
fine. 
 
Q. Mentally you don't feel you have to press?
 
 TIGER WOODS: No. There's so many holes left. It's only the first round. 
 
Q. You and Butch do anything special to prepare for something like this knowing you're
going to be coming over here to play in possibly heavy wind conditions?
 
 TIGER WOODS: Just make sure your swing plane is good, make sure you round it off enough
so the club comes down in front of you so you can shut it off, add loft, whatever you need
to do at impact. If I'm not swinging well, as you know, I tend to get stuck. Getting stuck
here means I'm going to flip the ball up in the air, you don't know what distance it's
going to go. If I get the club coming down in front of me, which we've been working on
pretty hard, down in front, I can shut it off or use a true loft, and I'll be just fine.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT