U.S. OPEN
August 27, 1996
Steffi Graf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Steffi, your assessment of how she played tonight?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Definitely played a very good second set. She really went for her shots,
played really deep. Sometimes she's not as steady, but I think she was playing a good
match today. 
 
Q. Can you remember the last time you were so jubilant over winning a first round
match?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Was I? 
 
Q. You were.
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Because I won the second set, which I didn't think I would do. Being down
5-2, the chances she had at 6-5 to pull it through, I think that's something to look
forward to. 
 
Q. Steffi, what goes through your head at moments like that? You save two set points;
you're down 4-1 in a tiebreak. What do you think, and how are you able to elevate your
game and do what you need to do?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Well, I felt I was playing these points a bit more aggressive than she
did. I mean, at some points I felt a little nervous. When it came down to important
points, I felt more confident. That's why I didn't really worry too much at this stage.
Being down 5-2, the set was kind of gone, so I just took it as another chance. 
 
Q. Is a match like this good for you, when you get pushed like this?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yes, I think it's a good first round match. I knew it wasn't going to be
an easy one. Usually in the first one or two matches, you want to find your rhythm and
want to get into it. To be in that situation today, a couple times having to play well,
get down and play point by point, definitely is a good start. 
 
Q. As you've reduced your playing schedule, Steffi, in order to be as fit as possible
for the big events, do you find it takes you a little bit longer to get ready for the
majors, to get the rust off?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yeah. I mean, I always felt I needed to play a lot of matches to feel good
about my game. I haven't really been able to do it a lot. I sometimes need one or two
matches to get that feeling back. You're right. I mean, it just takes me a little bit
longer sometimes. 
 
Q. Do you think that could have explained tonight's match a little bit?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yeah, definitely. Yeah. 
 
Q. You played her a few times over the years. Are you surprised that she hasn't really
developed more than she's done?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Yeah. I think it was '91, '92, she had some good results. When you see
her, I mean, she's got such great hands, so much more possibilities. I thought she would
go further than she has. She can come to the net, she can stay back, she can go for her
shots, she's physically pretty fit. She has a lot of abilities. She hasn't been very
instead. 
 
Q. Three days ago when you were practicing, you were wearing an elastic bandage on your
left leg. Why?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Why? For precaution. 
 
Q. Is there an injury there?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: I'm perfectly fine. I think maybe you saw today, I was moving fine, had no
problems. I'm physically fine. 
 
Q. But a precaution against what, Steffi?
 
 STEFFI GRAF: Just to be able to play today. I'm fine. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT