KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 3, 2000
Paul Stankowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: I'm definitely pleased with the round today. I drove the ball in very
well. Hit really -- I missed a few fairways but I really only hit one bad drive. Hit a lot
of good iron shots. Rolled the ball really well. Got up-and-down when I needed to, with
the exception of once. And I felt really good out there. I knew that -- I anticipated the
wind blowing quite a bit today. Looking at the forecast I thought we were going to get
20-mile-an-hour winds, but it never really happened. A little swirly at times, but I felt
like I controlled the ball flight really well. Took advantage of a couple opportunities
and a couple breaks and I'm pleased with where I am.  
 
Q. Number 15 where you hit your drive left behind the tree, could you just explain
that? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: I didn't have the greatest lie. I'm an aggressive player, I took a
really, really aggressive play. I should have pitched out. It was something that I think
90 percent of the people on TOUR would have done is just punch it out. It was an easy pin
from 100 yards, where I would have hit my second shot. But I just had like 176 to the
front. 30 to 40 yards short of the green, it kicks from right-to-left and I had the wind
blowing in on the right. I just try to hit a 9-iron, and all I had to do was get it under
this little limb and start it 30 yards right of the green, get a little bit of a draw -- I
just saw the entire shot perfectly. I knew what I needed to do. I didn't think it would be
that difficult to pull it off. But it was just overly aggressive. And I pulled it a little
bit, hit the tree and dropped in the rough and I had a crummy lie, hit in the bunker, hit
a good bunker shot, hit a good putt, but I missed it. I made double-bogey by playing too
aggressively on one shot. My caddie and I talked about it. He thought the play was to lay
up. I thought the play was to lay up. I said, okay, either way I would have used the same
club, I got over it and I got back in my stance a little bit -- and he's like, oh, gosh,
he's going to go for it. So it didn't work out very well. I made double. But I would do it
again. So that's happened.  
 
Q. Was it just because you were pumped because you just had a birdie? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: No. I just have a hard time with punching out sometimes. Obviously,
there's only one shot; I'm going to punch out. I'm not a stupid golfer by any means, but
at that time, it was -- I had to hit a perfect shot to knock it on the green and I just
thought I could do it. I felt really good about it. Like I said, I would do it again. I
don't regret doing it. But, you know, I wish I had not made double.  
 
Q. You had talked it over with your caddie and....
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: We agreed to punch out. 
 
Q. And it was literally when you got over the ball? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: I knew exactly what I needed to do if I was going to go for the green
and I had my spots picked out and everything.  
 
Q. What was the club? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: I hit a 9-iron.  
 
Q. The beautiful weather, it seemed like a good day for low round, are you surprised at
10-under that you're only a stroke back? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: You never know out here. I mean, there's a lot of good pins out there
today, and there were some -- there wasn't a lot of wind, but it was swirling a little
bit. It was kind of hard to read it at times. It would be calm and then the next minute
blowing downwind. Early in the day like around 3:00 it was pretty much in our face, go to
4 and 5; and we get on 6 tee box and it's blowing in our face again and that hole was
opposite. It was kind of strange. But this golf course, it's not the easiest course in the
world, especially when they put pins in some tough spots. That's probably the reason why
we are not any lower than we are, which I'm thankful for.  
 
Q. You said you'd do it over again on the double-bogey shot, but you also said you
thought it was overly-aggressive. So where are we there? Was problem that maybe you
changed your mind as you were over the ball?
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: No. I just hit a bad shot. But of all the shots, I only had to hit it
145 yards in the air. It may not have gotten to the green, but it would have looked really
good. The ball had to move -- if I hit it where I wanted to, if I started where I wanted
it to, all I needed to move it was five or ten feet in the air right-to-left and it would
have been perfect. Like I say, I could tell my caddie was mad that I hit the shot because
he thought it was a lay-up. I knew it was a lay-up, but it wasn't an impossible shot. I'm
aggressive, like I say. I have a hard time playing away from flags at times. That could
cost me the tournament. If it does, definitely next time in that position, I'm going to
think twice about being aggressive in that circumstance. But I'd do it again. I mean, just
-- I'm not upset about it at all. I walked off, I was worried my caddie was mad at me. I
go, "Are you upset, are you mad at me?" "No. Let's go."
"Fine." "That's fine." I was more concerned that he was mad. If it was
on Sunday, I would not have hit that shot. I would have laid up. But being Saturday with a
lot of golf yet, if I made a great shot and made birdies; momentum carries, get the crowd
behind you -- I just made two good birdies. I felt good. I felt like I was on a cloud just
cruising.  
 
Q. How much are you driven by -- it just seems like you have, I don't know, a real
focused attitude. How much does that kind of guide what kind of decisions you make on the
golf course? It seems like you're a very emotional player. 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: Typically, I'm really not an emotional player. I try and keep my
emotions on an even keel. Today, though, I did feel it was fun, because I've got -- I know
a lot of people in the area out here I stay with a great family. I've got my cousins from
Pennsylvania that come down. It was cool. I was kind of, I guess, playing with the crowd a
little bit, and I'm not a fist-pumper, but I caught myself pumping my fist a few times
today when I made putts. But to say that -- I typically will hit a shot that I feel
comfortable hitting. I don't go against myself a lot. I felt comfortable hitting that
shot. It was very aggressive. But, you know, sometimes that doesn't scare me being
aggressive. But sometimes I enjoy when the pins are tucked right next to water and I enjoy
cutting it off the water towards the flag. Just something within me that I enjoy the rush
of a really aggressive, really difficult shot. And sometimes they come off good and
sometimes they don't and that time it didn't. But, you know, I've got a lot of golf left;
so I'm not too concerned.  
 
Q. But after that didn't pay off, you had to be heartened by 17, you come back with
probably one of the best shots of the round today?
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: That was the best swing I had put on the ball -- it's a funny thing
about making a hole-in-one or a perfect golf shot -- hole-in-ones are made from
half-shanks, half-rat shots, but that shot, that was perfect. It felt perfect. My balance
was perfect. I just -- it was great. I really enjoyed that shot, actually.  
 
Q. Did you think it was going in? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: I thought it had a chance. When it landed on top -- I see it's a
really difficult pin. The second time they have put it there this week. I don't understand
why. The green is huge, and we've had two pins within five feet of each other in this
little bowl. If you catch the downslope, it's kicking over the greens and you're in a deep
bunker or you're dead. If it hits into the upslope, it's going to kill it and you've got
to putt it from over that thing. And my ball landed right on top. It was perfect. I was
trying to hit it there, and I happened to hit it there. And that's what I mean. Just one
of those shots that came off exactly like I wanted to. It felt really nice. 6, I hit
driver, 6-iron about 25 feet. 2-putted. 8, I hit driver, off the tee. I hit driver -- sand
wedge about 15 feet left of the pin. 13, I hit driver, 5-iron, hit a little heavy -- was
actually in the hazard, and I flopped it up there about 15 feet and made that for birdie.
14, I hit 2-iron in a divot. Hit a little blast sand wedge to about six feet. 17, I hit a
7-iron. 18, I had about an 18-footer on 18. Hit just a perfect putt and gave everybody a
thrill, but it didn't go in.  
 
Q. Could you talk a little bit about tomorrow and the fact that this leaderboard is
very bunched up right now? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: It will be an interesting day tomorrow, because the leaderboard
bunched up. (Laughs). 
 
Q. As far as you're concerned what does that mean for you? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: It doesn't mean anything. Whether it's just me and Steve Lowery or
whoever within one or two, it's going to be a long day. I think we're going to get some
good weather. The golf course is in great shape. If I can go out there and play within
myself, take advantage of opportunities. It's simple. I play well, I'm going to have a
chance to win coming down the stretch. If I don't play well, I don't have a chance. I see
no reason why I don't play well. I feel good about it. I'm hitting the ball well. I'm
confident. But anybody can win this thing. There's what, eight -- I don't even know, five,
six guys within two shots of the lead. And then a few more that are within three or four.
You know, anything is possible. A low score could be shot tomorrow. Someone could shoot 63
out here in a heartbeat and come from behind. So I'm not going to put any thought into
that. I'm going to go out there and play with the guy I'm playing with and just enjoy the
day. Hopefully things will work out.  
 
Q. Are the greens a little less crusty today? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: Yeah, the greens were -- they seem to be a little better. They were
getting a little scary there in the afternoon on Thursday when I played. I think after
Friday, there was some bumpiness going on. A little rain last night, cooler dry weather.
They were nice.  
 
Q. Is it safe to say that tomorrow you will not try to take it to another level? 
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: Tomorrow, I'm just going to go out there on the 1st hole and hit it
where I'm aiming and we'll take it from there.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT