BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
March 31, 2000
Paul Stankowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: Well, today was pretty much the same kind of day as yesterday. I
didn't hit it that great. Hit some good shots, though, which helped capitalize on a couple
of birdies, but still wasn't what I wanted tee-to-green, but definitely 2-under par, I
will take. It was kind of swirly out there. The wind blowing about -- it was about a club
wind and so I thought the golf course played fairly tough today, a little tougher than
yesterday for sure. But, yeah, it was one of those days. I had three 3-putts, but
yesterday I made a couple of good putts, so, I am pleased with the outcome. 
 
Q. Do you think it is easier to concentrate here if you are not playing in The Masters?
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: No. I mean, I don't think that it makes a difference one way or the
other.  
 
Q. (inaudible) things are starting to be a little better that you are now looking for
more in your game because I mean, for what you have finished this year, to have the
weekend lead (inaudible) sounds like you are still not really happy?
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: You know, I'd like to hit the ball well. That is the thing. If I had a
lot of confidence right now I'd be sitting up here saying shoot, I am -- there is no doubt
I am going to win the golf tournament if I keep hitting it good, but I don't feel like I
am hitting it that great and -- but I know that if I continue to do what I am doing, I am
going to have a chance to win the golf tournament. But I am not sitting up here with a lot
of confidence that I am going to shoot 66, 66 the next two days. I definitely know it is
possible. I believe in my abilities, but I am not quite as sharp as I want to be and so --
yeah, I don't know if I answered your question or not but that is basically it. I don't
feel that -- for the last two years I have played pretty poorly, but I still believe that
every time I teed it up that I'd have a chance to win a golf tournament if I hit it good
and I just never hit it good. If I hit it good, I putted bad. (inaudible). So I never stop
believing that I have the game to win out here on Tour. I know that when things are going
my way and I am rolling it good and chipping good and hitting it good, obviously, anybody
out here who hits it really well, chips it well and putts it well is going to have a
chance to win regardless of who is in the field. I believe I am in the same category, just
some guys can hit it good, putt good, chip it good every week and other guys do it three
times a year. I'd like to get more opportunities. 1997 was a fun year to me because I had
a ton of opportunities to win, every week going into the weekend, you know, I had a chance
to win. I think that year I had a 72 scoring average on Sunday and still finished 20th on
the money list. But I think that this week isn't any different from last week going in.
Obviously I shot 159. Now I am not at 159 so, there is a big difference but I don't feel
any different this week as did I last week, who knows, go figure. 
 
Q. Do you feel like your short game will carry you in the final two rounds or if you
don't improve from tee-to-green, you won't have a chance to win?
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: No, I think that if I hit it exactly like I have hit it the last two
days, I can still win the golf tournament. I have not done anything outstanding the first
two days and currently I am an 8-under par, but I have made four putts over 25 feet this
week and if I can keep that up, shoot, good things are going to happen. I have gotten
up-and-down every time I have missed a green which is a good thing. But like I said, today
I had three 3-putts but they were from 30 feet, 50 feet and 30 feet. So, that shows I am
not hitting the ball really closely all the time, but I had a few 5-footers today and so
-- yeah, I can still win hitting it the way I am hitting it just because I believe I am a
great putter, great putter, I am a great chipper. (laughs). 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 PAUL STANKOWSKI: Yesterday I hit a drive down the left side of the fairway, I couldn't
get there. Today I hit it down the right side of the fairway and had 4-iron, but I had
4-iron in my hand, downhill lie, it is a still challenging shot. Today was probably one of
the tougher pins, front right, but no, I like it. I like the par 5s; that if you hit a
good drive you can get home in 2, but you are not going to hit 5-iron or 7-iron into the
green. To get home in 2 this week you are going to have hit a good second shot or to hit
it close because it is downhill lie. You are going to have either a hanging lie or
downhill lie, and that is not too easy. I like the hole a lot better now definitely. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT