WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Gustavo Kuerten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
 
Q. Did that disputed line call in the second set really destroy your concentration and
rhythm? You looked very angry for a very long time. 
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yes, for almost 30 minutes maybe. I really got very angry because
could be two sets to love for me, and the things change around completely. One call like
that can change the match, you know. I was sure that the umpire saw it, and he didn't
call. I don't know why. 
 
Q. What about your love affair with grass? Has it started yet?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, it's good. I've been playing pretty good. I'm very confidence. I
think I can play even better, so I'm happy to play here and see my chance pretty well.  
 
Q. How did you regain your composure after the dispute with the umpire?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I think I did not had too much chance. I was playing, trying to
see what's going to happen. I see myself in big trouble 5-4 down. He's serving for the
set. Was maybe a challenge to come back. I played really well three games that time and
win the set. After I win the set again, things completely change. But to get myself into
the game again was a little bit tough. Was the first time happened to me, these calls.
Well, I think, I don't know, something with myself. I don't know if it's personal. 
 
Q. How did you wind up hitting the ball to him and what was his reaction?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, that ball was old ball. It was old ball to take it out. I wasn't
hitting him; I was giving it to him.  
 
Q. What do you put down to your improvement on grass the last two years?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think was the practise, just the practise I had, experience in the
moment I'm living. I'm playing better tennis on all surface right now. 
 
Q. Was it a mental thing at the start at all?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: No, just didn't know how to play. I mean, if you've never been here,
it's tough to start playing well. I think even first time I played this tournament, I
didn't play bad. I've been playing well since I've been here, but first two times I lost
tough match. Right now I'm winning. Maybe this is because, you know, the mind, how I
approach. 
 
Q. You're serving pretty well today. 29 aces. Is that anything like a record for you?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Like last year here, I think I did the same. I really need my serve a
lot here. I still not, you know, the greatest volley in the game. So I need a little bit
of serve. It's working well. I've been practise a lot. I'm doing fine. I try to learn with
the other guys, maybe not only power, but using the right serve in the right time.  
 
Q. Do you think your game is strong enough to win this tournament yet?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I think if I will retire only if I win this tournament, maybe I
have to play 50 more years. I think it's better see . I think I have chance playing
against most of the players, but I still not very solid, not as good as the other guys
that have that much more record than me. 
 
Q. How important is confidence here? It seems sometimes players can dominate here like
Pete has, like Bjorn Borg did, like Navratilova did. Is there an element about Wimbledon
where if you don't feel good about the place, don't have the confidence, you have no
chance at all?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Yeah, I think it's a lot of risk. When you play you take a lot of
risk, you know, go for the shot, try to hit winner all the time. You have to be confidence
in your game and believe that you ready to play on grass, too. I think don't really matter
if you practise and you do everything right. You have to go on court and make sure you are
ready to play. I think that's the key. Otherwise big points, because you always going to
get the tiebreaks, break points, all these huge points that you have to believe in your
game and go for the risky shot. You got to do it, otherwise you going to go out.  
 
Q. Can you develop that or is that something you have naturally because you've had some
success?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think sometimes you can come here in better or worst situation. Like
this year, I just arrive here in my greatest moment maybe, so I can take a little bit of
advantage about that. But like it's different with Krajicek, Sampras. I think they already
had win so many games on here that they know they got here and they going to play well.
Maybe it didn't happen once or twice, but normally they do. So it's a different approach.
Like myself, I have to go here in a good moment, and I think things gets a little bit
easier for me.  
 
Q. How much do you notice your supporters when you play?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think they was good for me today, especially after, you know, that
situation, I start to struggling for a while. So after when I got the break back, come
back 5-All, I got a little bit more enthusiastic with the crowd, too. Sometimes that can
happen, like today they did with me. 
 
Q. Do you like this tournament?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I think they could pick up in the airport, and more money to eat
because is only one spaghetti and finish your money (laughter).  
 
Q. When did you decide to get the Williams look with your hair?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: I think maybe I have a little bit of -- my soul not too white, you
know (laughter). So inside I have a little bit of this (touching hair). I try to do it
before, and I just didn't had the time. So I went back home and did it finally. I think is
good.  
 
Q. What about this controversy about the Spanish players and the seeds, Rusedski out
yesterday? Do you think the criteria is right?
 
 GUSTAVO KUERTEN: Well, I believe more in the rankings. I think I would be disappointed
if they made it against myself. But like they did here with some players, put Rusedski,
and he lost first round, so it's too risky. I think the ranking system should be more
available in these situation. Every tournament should done like that. If the guy not
seeded, he can play well. So if the guy is too good in grass, he can break through one
good seed and do his tournament in the best way. Doesn't really matter changing the guy's
position.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT