NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
Allan Steinfeld
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Fred once gave me a statistic on the number of intersections to cross.
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: 384. I think that is in the press kit but the number's plus or minus
that. It sounds good anyway. 
 
Q. Did anything go wrong?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Yeah. 
 
Q. What?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: The cannon didn't go off but the cannon went off fortunately. The
military had a backup cannon, which was a way from the starter platform where the mayor
and I and various commissioners were stationed and the mayor he pulled the line again it
looked like after slightly joking but I was rather upset. That trying to start a lawnmower
that wouldn't start. Then the military person we have -- I didn't know existed. I am glad
it did exist but the military played it safe. Then caboom, it went off. And the runners
started because fortunately but never gave exact time, the runners were just waiting and
did the National Anthem instead of taking 46 seconds after the anthem to begin, I think it
took a minute and two seconds. They couldn't tell the difference because it was so cold
anyway. 
 
Q. How many times did he try?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Three or four maybe. It would do that and it would fire. The mayor is
the official starter. I just tell him when to start. 
 
Q. Then there is a backup?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: There is a backup cannon that if you see the start, you've got the
bridge apron where the cars normally are, and all the way on the left-hand side, when the
camera looks at it, is the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority Headquarters, that is
where they have additional cannon. Just happened to be there, thank God. 
 
Q. You did not do that? What actually triggers the start clock?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: When the gun is fired. 
 
Q. Did you receive any reports about protest actions against --
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: I didn't receive any reports but there was. If you were late you
missed it. Right at the beginning of the Hasidic section and I couldn't read, it happened
so fast, there were probably about a series of signs, 20 or 30 foot long on one side and
that was it. They said something to the effect, I don't recall -- New York City Marathon
protest, just making a statement. But as we went along the area there were various people
in the neighborhood, some were Hasidim, some were kids who were clapping and cheering the
runners on as they always do every year. Certainly they are a little more stoic and staged
in their position, but periodically there is a few people who get into it and they were
cheering. 
 
Q. Would you clarify, where was the protest?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: I believe the Williamsburg section. It is a little after 10 miles when
you make the turn. 
 
Q. What was the point of the protest?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Well, it was related to the fact that a member of the freedom party of
Austria -- I forget his name, you guys would probably know . But if you looked at this
morning's Times, there was a piece -- and I managed to read the sports section while I was
out there waiting for things to happen -- where he was supposedly meeting tomorrow with
the Jewish community to talk about things and he's alleged that these things are not
correct and he is willing to do that. And in the article it said that the community would
not be protesting which when I read that in the morning at about 4:30 at the start, still
had a slight sigh of relief knowing that it wouldn't be a major protest like the protest
back in 1988 which almost happened for those who probably remember. When the BQE was
undergoing major construction, they were getting all the trucks coming off the BQE into
the Williamsburg section, they had a real problem with that. So there was an attempt --
they didn't do it on race day -- they planned to protest to make the point that traffic
has to be rerouted another way and not into Williamsburg, you have kids out there all over
the place. In fact the individual, Isaac Abrams, is the same one who wrote the letter
appealing to the Road Runner's Club not to have this gentleman run in a race or reroute
it. And when I spoke, because he was concerned that things were getting blown out of
proportion, when all of a sudden we are reading in the paper that this group or that group
was going to do a protest, whatever, he wanted to let me know that that was not the case.
So there was a working relationship here and I think it just died down. 
 
Q. Did you talk to Haider before?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: No, I did not. 
 
Q. The man who won the wheelchair division mentioned that there was no finishing tape
and he was disappointed in that?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: It wasn't the wheelchair division. 
 
Q. I am sorry, my mistake. There was no (inaudible).
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: I make no comment on that because we are in litigation. 
 
Q. There was another politician, German one in the field, his name is Fischer. Foreign
minister?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Not another German but a German because he was Austrian. 
 
Q. I should know better. The question is it seems as if he entered under a different
name; is that common procedure?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Politicians, yes, it often is for security reasons. We had one of the
princes from the Netherlands run this year and I forget which one it is, because I am not
very good at that monarchy stuff, and the people who met with me said we are not going to
use his proper name but this is who he is, number such and such. Obviously with respect to
the Austrian individual, the papers wrote that it was 5777 was his number because it was
on the internet because we list that information and everybody kept asking me "where
will I find it? Will you change the number?" Of course we changed the number. But we
will let them know. In fact what I wanted to do but didn't have the guts to do it was have
a few 777s and put them on a little old ladies in the back of the race (laughter). 
 
Q. We still can't prove that Fischer finished the race because we don't know under
which name he entered?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: That is correct. However, I would imagine that if someone contact the
office now since the race is done, and he is not no longer a security problem, they
probably tell you look him up internet on such and such which is what happened with the
principles last time too. 
 
Q. Offer us some comments about Primo Nebiolo who passed away today?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Geez, to say I am stunned is an understatement. He was an interesting
individual could we work with him directly. As you may recall in 1984 we put on World
Cross Country Championships so we worked with he and his committee from '81 and he
actually had tremendous respect for what we were doing. I don't believe the idea very,
very recently when they realized that the sport of road running has a very high profile
was really ever thinking about doing anything with that. Certainly been battles that
existed between federations, maybe not directly ourselves, but city marathons so
(inaudible) -- I guess from the media's point of view (inaudible) marathon championships.
In doing it he also wanted to make sure that those dates were protected and so no other
races could run against those dates. And some dates they chose, I think one was London,
another was Rotterdam -- he didn't choose New York because he probably realized that we
would not back down nor would London, nor would Rotterdam so they rescheduled things. So I
wouldn't call it a love/hate relationship; I'd call it a like and maybe a problem
relationship at times. But we would were never treated poorly. Personally with the with
respect to the club because Fred was such a high profile individual. He has done a
tremendous amount to promote the sport, not just in the United States, and those of you
who travel, most of you do, this race is better known outside of the United States than it
is here. For that Primo was eternally grateful. He will be missed. 
 
Q. Can't say anything more about the wheelchair at all?
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: No, because it is in litigation. In fact there is a stipulation which
both parties were dealing with which is supposed to be sacred stipulation because it is
like a gag order to get stuff done. I can say some of the things we did differently this
year which because there were problems last year, one was there was a problem on the 59th
Street Bridge which you probably discussed where runners were held back, there was a
safety issue, tremendous number of cars going over the bridge and in the other athletes
coming. In the past we have the outer roadway on the southern end of the bridge to get one
group over versus another and we didn't have that last year there was a problem. So this
year with all the city agencies the wheelchair athletes went on the northern outer roadway
which lengthened the course and because more than is 26 miles, 385 yards, we removed the
start-up by the distance which was close to I think 780 feet. An additional problem which
we dealt with this year as opposed to last year, is the fact that the chip, which is the
EZ Pass described before allows us to have only three or four openings at the finish, I
know those openings are about 8 to ten feet wide. Prior to that when we used to tear off
bar codes we needed (inaudible) inches wide. And due to that fact the wheelchairs could
not go down any other lanes but a particular one that was on the right. That was problem
last year and we resolved that this year. 
 
Q. Mr. Such, didn't seem to be under a gag order, I will tell you.
 
 ALLAN STEINFELD: Well, his lawyers are, but maybe he is not. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT