AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 8, 1999
David Burba
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Sometimes guys talk about being strong when they have more than four days rest. How
have you approached that whole aspect of it in terms of how long it's been since you've
pitched?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Basically, if I have an extra day, I try to take it. The day that --
depending on how it falls, like today it falls on a day where it's an easy day for me
anyway, so I would just approach it like a normal day as if we did have a game and I'll go
out and just play catch and make sure I get loose and do a little running and give my legs
a little bit of work. And that's how I approach it. The prior days, I try to throw my
bullpens as I normally would, if there was a regular five days in between starts. So
that's basically how I approach the extra day. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your feelings about, your personal feelings about your first
post-season start? I know last year, I forget what game it was, but you came in after Doc.
That was not really a start, it was early in the game. Can you talk about your first
actual start?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Well, a little nervous. I guess that's only normal. I'm very excited, very
honored to be a part of the Indians post-season starting staff. That's basically it. I'm
very honored to be, you know, slated to be a number three guy for a top Major League
Baseball team. I feel honored. 
 
Q. What are your thoughts on being the person that could wrap this all up for the
Cleveland Indians? And also could you talk about the finish to the regular season. You
were really strong?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Well, I guess to answer the first part of the question is I try not to let,
you know, outside factors like that affect, I guess, my mental make-up. You know, I could
be the guy that does this or does that, that puts them out, if I start thinking things
like that, then I tend to put too much pressure on myself and I'm the type of guy that
likes to take things as they come, meaning, you know, it's just another start. I have to
go out and prepare, like it's any other start. As soon as I start thinking, "Well,
this is a big game, I have to do this, I have to do that," then I start doing things
Dave Burba is not capable of doing. So I'm going to approach it like it's any other start.
Yeah, I know it's an important game, things like that. But that's how I have to approach
it. How I finished the regular season, I guess basically I spent a lot of time working on
my mechanics and making minor adjustments with Phil in the bullpen in between starts. I
guess they really took effect for me in the second half, and made me a better pitcher than
I was in the first half. Even though I thought I pitched well in the first half but not as
well as I did in the second half. 
 
Q. Are there things that you saw in the way of Bartolo (Colon) and Charles (Nagy)
approached the Red Sox that you're going to try to emulate tomorrow?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Well, I learned one thing; I don't have a 100 mile an hour fast ball. I
don't have a good curveball like Chuck does. I do pitch sort of like Chuck, I try to move
the ball around a lot. I try to change speeds. And I'm not going to basically lay out what
I saw from the two games, but, yeah, I learned a lot from watching those two pitch and how
they approach the hitters, and especially watching Chuck because him and I are a lot a
like as far as our make-up, our pitches. We both throw change-ups, a curveball and a split
finger. I throw a sinker; Chuck throws a sinker. I watched Chuck yesterday and I learned a
lot from how he pitched to them. Basically, I'm going to do, you know, what I feel I have
to do as far as my strong suits, and some of the things that I learned from Chuck and
Bartolo. I don't know if that answers your question, but I don't want to go into, you
know, in case somebody else is watching. 
 
Q. I understand you don't want to put extra pressure on you. You guys up two games to
none. With Pedro hurt and Nomar, do you feel like you're in the driver's seat?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Any time you have a chance to put them away with one game left, that
definitely gives us the advantage. But you can never let your guard down. I had to go out
and pitch aggressive like I always do, and hopefully our offense can score some runs early
and put the pressure on them even more. But as far as, you know, do we have -- we
definitely have the advantage right now, but that doesn't mean that, you know, it's over.
Anything can happen. So for me, I have to go out tomorrow and pitch a quality game and
give my team an ample chance to win the ball game. That's the approach I'm going to take. 
 
Q. As you look ahead to tomorrow's game, how much of a tendency do you think there will
be for them to just really press when they're at the plate to try to make things happen,
knowing that they're down 2-0?
 
 DAVE BURBA: That's a difficult question for me to answer. Yeah, I think that they're
going to be, you know, trying a little more than maybe they normally will, I mean sure,
it's post-season. Everybody's going to be trying harder than normal, I guess you could say
that. But I don't think that they're going to press too hard, because they're quality
Big-League hitters and they know how to play the game, they know how to approach day in
and day out, I guess, how to ready themselves for any game. As far as them pressing
tomorrow, I don't think that's going to happen. But hopefully it does, and we can get out
of there with a victory. 
 
Q. Fenway Park probably has a reputation of its own, just among pitchers. Do you have
memories of how you felt the first time you pitched going way back to your Seattle days,
what the pitcher thinks about the Green Monster and all of that?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Yeah, I definitely have memories of this park because my first Big League
appearance ever was here in Boston. The only thing I can remember was my legs shaking so
much I didn't think I was going to be able to throw a baseball. I didn't pitch very well
that day, but it was my first appearance and I was very nervous. As far as the Green
Monster and everything goes, how am I going to approach that, is I'm going to pitch like I
pitch any other ballpark and pitch how I would normally pitch, because as soon as I try to
change something or do something different, then I'm going against my strengths, and I
have to pitch to my strengths to be effective. And I can't try to do things different
because of a baseball field or something like that. I have to pitch the way I'm capable of
pitching, and pitch to my strengths. 
 
Q. You've earned a reputation as a guy like a team leader, someone who can come in and
spot start or relieve. Do you look at that role now as -- do you see yourself as a team
leader, you know, somebody that guys could look to in certain key games?
 
 DAVE BURBA: It's a nice compliment, but I don't think that way. I am more of a -- I
wouldn't say a leader, but a team player. I'll do whatever my team needs me to do. Last
year was a perfect example, they asked me to pitch out of the bullpen and, you know, I
accepted that and went down there and won a couple ball games out of the bullpen, which
was a big honor for me in post-season. But as far as being a leader, you know, I try to
just be Dave Burba and have the same approach every day, and if guys look up to and look
up to me as far as being a team leader, then, you know, that's great. But I don't try to
do anything out of the ordinary, but I just try to help my team win and if that's being a
leader, then I guess I'll accept that role. 
 
Q. A lot of people in baseball were saying before this series that Boston was a
dangerous team in a short series because of Pedro and a lot of people didn't think that
they would be surprised if Boston were to win. Do you think your team was underestimated
at all?
 
 DAVE BURBA: I don't think we're underestimated. I think everybody was looking at the
fact, like you said, about Pedro. If he can come in and pitch the first game and get a
win, then naturally he's going to come back in the fourth or fifth game if it went that
far, and that's probably what gave them the upperhand. But we've got Bartolo Colon on our
side. You're talking about a quality pitcher also who may not be the caliber of Pedro, but
Bartolo can match up to Pedro, which he did all year, and luckily we got that first game
and now we have the advantage. As far as a short series goes, anybody could come out the
winner. The most important thing is getting that first win. I think that's what everybody
was looking at. Pedro, they were banking on him nailing down that first victory. 
 
Q. Would you mind talking in general about the opportunity to pitch this game, close it
out for the Indians, how you feel about it?
 
 DAVE BURBA: Well, like I said, I wasn't going to let the, you know, outside factors
build up as far as: "Hey, I could be the guy that closes out the series, be the big
hero." I don't want to approach it that way because then I will tend to put too much
pressure on myself and start doing things that I'm not capable of doing and I'll start
trying to overthrow the baseball and things like that. I'm going to take the approach that
this is an important game and I have to go out and pitch a quality game and give my team a
chance to win. So how am I going to approach it? I would approach it like I would any
other baseball game. Prepare myself to pitch nine innings, nine scoreless innings, and
adjust as the game goes. 
 
Q. You had five sharp innings against Toronto. Was that important for you for
confidence or reassuring yourself that your arm was in good shape
 
 DAVE BURBA: It was definitely a confidence booster, going out and having pitched well
that day, throwing strikes. I don't believe I walked anybody. That's probably a first.
But, yeah, it definitely gives me some confidence knowing that I'm throwing the ball well
and able to throw all my pitches over in any count. That definitely gives you a little bit
of confidence going into an important game like tomorrow. And I think that, you know, it
was basically a test for me on Sunday to get myself ready for this start. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT