U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2000
Kellee Booth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: Well, I'm thrilled about the way I played today. You know, I got off to a
little shaky start. I think that was mostly nerves. But I birdied 11, which gave me hope
that I could make some birdies out there today, after bogeying 10, and then I hit it in
the rough on 12 and made bogey there, unfortunately. The rough got me. I hit my second
shot about 20 yards and ended up getting up-and-down for bogey. So after I got off to that
start, I birdied 16 to get me back even, and that really got me going into the -- well,
the front nine, my last nine holes. And it was tough out there in the wind. I was really
lucky I got to play on Monday for A practice round with the wind blowing this way, because
the last two days, obviously it has not blown out of the west; it blew out of the
northwest. It was a little different today, but I'm real pleased with the way I played. 
 
Q. How much of an advantage do you think you'll have tomorrow, having played in the
afternoon in the wind today and the rest of the field, good scores in this morning and now
maybe a flip-flop; is that a help?
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: I definitely think it is. Always, getting off to a good start in the
afternoon round is important, because the next morning you get to putt on greens that
don't have nearly as many spike marks on them. And, you know, the greens will be a little
softer, as well, just the overnight conditions. If we get down to the dew point, that will
soften up the greens a little bit and that's an advantage. Hopefully, we'll get the benign
wind conditions in the morning like the players did this morning.  
 
Q. Your mother played golf, your dad was your caddie today. Can you talk about your
parents' role? 
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: My mom was very successful in this championship. Rhonda probably has that
information in the archives. She's a wonderful player, and she just came off winning the
Curtis Cup as a captain and retaining the Cup for us, which was wonderful, after we won it
in Minneapolis in '98. And she's actually coming in tonight; so she'll be here for
tomorrow's round, which is nice. I'd like to have the support. And having my dad on the
bag is just a real comfort zone for me. This is the sixth Open that he's caddied for me
in. Only the first one did I have somebody else caddie for me. So, I feel really
comfortable with him out there, and it's just a lot of moral support. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the greens, how they are rolling this afternoon?
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: They were very firm this afternoon. I found that a lot of shots you
almost had to land short to keep it close to the front hole locations, and there were
quite a few spike marks out there. They get you if you got behind them. I got behind them
on No. 5 and ended up 3-putting. But other than that, you know, they were rolling pretty
smooth, and I think they are in real good condition. 
 
Q. I wonder if you can talk more about your mom's accomplishments. Tiger had Jack
Nicklaus' record up on the wall. I wonder if you always had to do that with your mom:
"Hey, what did you do at this age," following her, winning the Women's Western
Amateur and things like that?
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: Well, she won almost every Amateur event, other than the Women's Amateur,
two to three times. So, I had a tough act to follow when it came to Amateur golf. And
finally, my last year, which was 1999, playing Amateur golf, I think I captured three of
the events that she had won, and got one that she didn't, and that was the
"SALLY," the beginning of -- well, middle of January. And she's played so
wonderfully in this tournament. I think she finished third and fifth once or twice in this
event. And to be able to get off to a good start really gives me hope that I can hopefully
match her record there.  
 
Q. Do you put any more emphasis now on the Women's Open that you're professional versus
when you were an amateur and wanting to play well? 
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: I don't think so. Obviously this is a new experience, to play in an Open
and actually play for money, finally; so, that's all new to me. But I think I approach it
the same way, the way I did when I was an amateur. There was always an incentive that if
you finished high enough in the tournament, you got to play the next year; so being exempt
and not having to qualify. Unfortunately, that didn't happen for me last year. I just
finished being in the Top-20, the bad last hole, but being able to qualify this year and
being able to get back to the Championship really means a lot to me.  
 
Q. This is a very mature-looking leaderboard, with the exception of you. Are you
surprised that some of the younger players have not performed as well today? 
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: You know, I really can't answer for all of the younger players. I can
answer for myself; that I went out and played the best that I could out there. And
obviously, I have quite a bit of experience in this event, having played as many times as
I have. And I know it's tough for somebody to walk out onto the first tee, and I have the
same problem with jitters on the first tee. I probably will if I'm playing in this event
when I'm 50, I'll probably still get nervous. But I think experience does a lot for the
leaderboard. You know, the players that are up there know how to play in these conditions,
out of the tough rough and the wind, and the fast greens. They have all been there. They
know what it's like, and they seem to play well in those conditions. 
 
 KELLEE BOOTH: I hit the drive down to the left. It was playing really long, 410 into
the wind today, and I hit my drive down the left side and hit a 3-iron that landed just
short and bounced to the right in the rough. I hit a pretty good shot out of the rough and
missed about an 8-footer for par. And then No. 11, I hit a 4-iron to about six feet and
rolled that in for birdie. And then, as I spoke about on No. 12, I hit my drive in the
left rough and advanced my second shot about 20 yards. And then hit a 4-wood out to the
fairway. I hit a 6-iron just to the right of the hole on the green and chipped on and made
my putt for bogey. The birdie at 16, I hit a 6-iron to a foot and a half; so that was
pretty routine. We like those tap-ins for birdies. No. 2, I hit a 5-iron to about 10 feet
and rolled that in. I was really -- got it rolling on the par 3s at that point. And No. 4,
hit a 6-iron to about 20 feet and rolled that in. I slam-dunked it, actually, watched
everybody in front of me leave it short; so, I figured I had to hit it a little harder.
And then on No. 5, I hit a 9-iron just on the front, left side of the green and had a big
swinger putt from about 20 feet and left it about three feet short. Hit a couple spike
marks along the way and I think that slowed it down. And then I missed the par putt. It
was about three feet long. Just missed it a little low and left. It broke to the left and
didn't quite hit it hard enough to hold the line. And then No. 8, I hit a really good
drive. I think -- I don't know what the stat was, but it was somewhere in the range of
290, which was pretty nice. It was downwind, I'll say that; so it wasn't really 290. And I
hit a 4-wood just to the left of the green. I had, I think, 233 to the hole and hit it
about pin-high with my 4-wood. And then got up-and-down, made about a 6-footer for birdie
there.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT