COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 3, 1996
Andreas Barth
Daniel Beauvois
Axel Meyer-Wolden
Wilfred Spronk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Well, the snow is done. The sun is shining. It's time to launch the
Seventh Compaq Grand Slam Cup. All the preparations are done. In less than one hour,
Michael Stich is going to open the Compaq Grand Slam Cup. Traditionally, I should like the
chairman of the tournament to address the audience and open, officially, this official
final of the Grand Slam season. Dr. Meyer-Wolden, before I give you the floor, can I
introduce the other people of this panel. Next to him Mr. Daniel Beauvois, managing
director of ISPR, which is the organizational agency organizing and marketing the
tournament. Then next to him, the host, as it were, Wilfred Spronk, managing director of
the Olympiapark. To my left, a person well-known, Andreas Barth, president/CEO of Compaq.
Dr. Meyer-Wolden. 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: Welcome to Munich in 1996, ladies and gentlemen. It's the seventh
Compaq Grand Slam Cup. It's as if we only met last week. Time flies more and more every
year. I think it was an extremely exciting tennis year, 1996; the four Grand Slam
tournaments, more than anything else. This tournament, as you know, is based on these four
tournaments. Boris Becker in Australia, Pete Sampras at the US Open, the winners, two big
champions have made two of these tournaments this year. Kafelnikov in Paris, and Krajicek
in Wimbledon were two sort of surprising winners, which shows that the tennis is alive.
Newcomers or younger players have their chance and can really get to the very top and win
the most important tournaments in tennis. For this tournament this year, as always, we are
looking for the champion, Grand Slam Champion. I feel a bit sad because, as you all know,
this year, 1996, is the last year to have this Grand Slam Cup in this preChristmas mood in
December, because, as of next year, the tournament will be played in the third week of
September. All in all, I'm rather satisfied with the Grand Slam Committee's decision to
this effect. As you know, we had a number of injuries this year, players have been driven
to cancel this tournament from their tournament plan. As you know, Davis Cup is another
thing; four Grand Slam tournaments. This is a lot of tournaments, indeed, and it's a very
tight schedule. The top players are sort of overstrained. I think it is a good decision to
get closer to the last Grand Slam tournament of the year, the US Open. On the other hand,
of course, this typical Munich preChristmas atmosphere will be replaced by the Oktoberfest
because it's the first of two or three Oktoberfest weeks. So, it will be adequate and
something that is going to replace this Christmas season. I wish you have a nice week in
Munich and enjoy the sport. Thank you, very much. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, Dr. Meyer-Wolden. Of course, after the statements you're
going to ask your questions. But, I'd first like to ask Daniel Beauvois to give his
statement. 
 DANIEL BEAUVOIS: Ladies and gentlemen, ISPR has been the organizer and the marketing
organization for two years now for this tournament. On the whole, I think our job is
almost done as of today because now sport is going to start. Other people are going to
create the highlights of this tournament. As far as the preparations are concerned, we are
quite satisfied. The tournament is going to open with a fully booked hall, which is a good
sign. We suppose the ticket sales are going to develop positively over the week as they
have over these last weeks. 60,000 people will be here. The crowd, the VIP lounges are
ready, we are prepared to host 60,000 people. Everything is ready. The TV marketing
company, of course, that we are, things that -- TV marketing is of the utmost importance
and for the first time will be in 143 countries live. I am not talking about smaller,
so-called, minute reports. They are going to be broadcast in even more countries. For the
first time there will be a live signal in more than 150 countries. Of course, not only our
traditional sponsors, Compaq, of course, there are five new sponsors this year: Telly-D1,
Escada, SKL, Generali, Rado. And, I'd like to thank, of course, our old and our new
sponsors that make such a tournament possible. Now, as I said, our job is done. Now it's
the sport. Thank you, very much. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, Daniel. Before giving the floor to the sportsmen, the title
sponsors, Mr. Barth. 
 ANDREAS BARTH: On behalf of the title sponsor; on behalf of the other sponsors, I'd
like to welcome you. We are extremely satisfied to see how this tournament has developed
over seven years. And, we are a bit proud to be the title sponsor, the partner of this
tournament, and its excellent development. One thing I'd like to stress is the information
service that we have been providing to you, to the journalists, for years. Last year we
went onto the Internet, this database covering the matches, giving all the statistics,
players' profiles, so on. All this has been offered to potentially 40 million users via
the net. This year we took it yet another step because for the first time there's a video
on the Internet, which is a worldwide first. This is something we think is absolutely high
technology. And, this, of course, makes the link between our high-tech company and the
Grand Slam Cup. Of course, not only you in the press room, but potentially all the
Internet users can be on line, on the web to see the match reports, interviews in real
time. The Internet, as you know, is the medium of the future. There are about 60 million
users today, but according to the latest estimates, it's going to be more than a billion
people. And, it's one day going to one day play the role that the telephone has played for
20 or 30 years. We would like to contribute to tennis being offered and accessible to a
lot of people. This is our contribution. As far as I'm concerned, I can only wish you
excellent working conditions over the week. We are going to support you with everything we
can do. If there's anything we can do or supply, don't hesitate to let us know, otherwise
I wish you and I wish for everybody a very exciting tournament.  
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you all. Last but not least the host, Mr. Spronk. 
 WILFRED SPRONK: Ladies and gentlemen, the Olympiapark doesn't feature a world first as
the title sponsor does, but being the host here, I'd like to welcome you most cordially in
the Olympiahalle Munich. This year's Compaq Grand Slam Cup tournament is a real highlight
in a year that has not lacked highlights because, as you may remember, a week ago the
boxing fight was here and there will be a few concerts and operas ending the year in the
Olympiahalle. Then we start a very special year, 1997, 25 years after the Olympic games,
and I can only tell you that we are proud. Of course, next year the tournament is going to
be here and this makes us proud because it's going to be part of our events, as Dr.
Meyer-Wolden said, it's going to take place in September, not December anymore. As it has
to be for such a top tournament, we had to shift some events because it's going to be an
even tighter schedule next year, being the 25th anniversary year. But the Compaq Grand
Slam tournament has found its date, third week of September, and I'm certain that the
atmosphere in the hall and in the city even more seen by more people all over the world
during Oktoberfest is going to be important and interesting. Welcome again. I hope you're
going to spend a very pleasant and exciting week here. Let me just mention from those
coming outside Munich, you know that your credentials entitle you to see the Olympiahalle
and the swimming pool. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Before you ask your questions, could I introduce Bill Babcock from
England, the administrator of the Grand Slam Committee. Should you have any questions
about injuries, changes of the draw, he is the person to ask. As far as the players are
concerned, it's the Grand Slam Committee. They are responsible, and he is going to give
you all the information you need. Would you like to ask your questions? Then of course
wait for the charming ladies, they are going to hand the microphones over to you so there
can be a simultaneous translation. 
 
Q. What about the contracts with the new sponsors? What duration?
 
 DANIEL BEAUVOIS: It varies. Rado has signed for four years. For the other four
sponsors, it's one year plus an option to extend. 
 
Q. Sorry for asking such a question at the beginning of such a tournament, but we heard
this morning that certain threats have been made against Boris Becker. Did the
organization try to enforce the security, to raise security? Is there anything true in
this story?
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: Well, of course, for security reasons, among others, I cannot really
give an answer to this question. I'd like to ask you not to cover this because the more
you write about it, the more, of course, these things could be triggered, invited. You
just assume that everything has been made in terms of security in order to have a safe
tournament. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Well, if you don't have any other questions, I would simply like to
wish you a very good, successful, pleasant week. Anytime you have a problem that you feel
you need help, my colleagues, you'll find us where you always find us, and have a very
pleasant week here in Munich. Thank you, very much. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT