TMS MONTE CARLO
April 21, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Alex, 4-3, final set, four breakpoints. Do you think you let it slip away or did he
grab it back? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I don't go that far. First point it was 6-3, 2-1 up a break
playing pretty impressive, pretty well, making no mistakes. Then, there, mentally, I was
not too strong, I was maybe not focused 100% on that moment. He came back strongly and, as
I said, mentally I was not pretty good in the second set. Then 2-Love in the third set I
got a break again and I just gave it away again, but then he played pretty well. From that
point on I had a lot of chances, that is why I feel really disappointed because with 4-3,
as you said, I had four breakpoints couldn't make it. One of it was a pretty long rally.
Then at the end I missed a forehand. Then 4-All I had another advantage to go 5-4. He
played backhand on the line, touched the net as you see, goes to the other side. Then I
had breakpoint on the last game and just lose it again. So many chances for a guy who is
playing really good tennis. 
 
Q. Were you perhaps a bit mentally tired or was it a bit of physical tiredness or what?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, I was perfect. I mean, the thing was that I was playing pretty good
tennis for the last couple of days, I just won straight sets everyday and today in my
position I seem really good way, maybe relaxed a little bit watching that I was winning
quite easily 6-3, 2-1 up a break with Dominik which he was hitting so hard, the ball, and
then maybe as I said, I lost my mind a little bit so it was difficult for me to come back
in the second set. Then I came back strongly in the third set, but it was not tired
because I played pretty well last couple of days and quite easy. Maybe it was
overconfidence, I don't know. 
 
Q. In your time you have done a lot of work on the ATP Tour Player Council. This is the
new big year. This is the new Masters Series. How do you think it reflects upon the game
that so many of the top players haven't either come here or made it through to the
semifinals?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, there are many things to say on this point. First one, as you see,
the Masters Series events and the Grand Slams, we have to play most of them on hard
courts, so it doesn't affect a hard court or really hard court guy if they don't come to
Monte Carlo because they can solve the problems playing in Indian Wells, Key Biscayne,
they have the chance to go to Cincinnati, to Toronto, Bercy, Stuttgart, all the others. We
have to go everywhere to play on hard courts because otherwise we are gone. Then I believe
that many peoples go away in the first round because it is difficult to play here because
everybody is strong; everybody is playing good tennis and right now the difference between
a Top-50 -- 50 guy or Top-10 guy is not that high -- it is a matter of mental moments and
strongness. People are getting tired and it is normal because every match is pretty hard
and it is difficult to win everyday. I believe it is kind of a little bit unfair, actually
because you got to play three Masters Series events in four weeks; then play the Grand
Slam on clay again which is, I believe, the most difficult Grand Slams because you got to
be mentally and physically 100% and better than ever because otherwise you cannot win a
match. So it is kind of strange to see you have to play Masters Series events like
back-to-back, Rome to Hamburg, that is impossible. It is so difficult for the guys who are
going to play well to keep on going, play the next week because they won't finish on
Sunday and they will have to fly on Monday and have to play on Tuesday another tough
match. I believe it is -- they should think about it and these tournaments are important
enough to give them a lot of credit. 
 
Q. Have you raised that point with people like Mark Miles whom you have obviously
spoken to a lot over the years, have you told him your thoughts on it?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Of course. 
 
Q. What response did you get?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Of course. Of course I talk to them a lot about that because I said to
the people Players Member Council members and everybody that my point of view that it was
quite unfair, but they didn't do much. I mean, from my point of view it is a great idea to
have these Masters Series and to see that people have to play, but at least give a chance
to rest a little bit otherwise you just burn out after a couple of days and a couple of
weeks. I talked to them a lot so they know already what I think.  
 
Q. What did they say back to you?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: You just see the results. They are still the same. - I am not
complaining a little bit, but it is nothing that we can do right now, but at least they
should think about it because as I said, these tournaments are really big and it is good
to see that we have some rest because if not, it is too much. It is too difficult to play
well everyday and through 15 days really -- it is impossible to win 12 matches in two
weeks, well, impossible, no, maybe there is a guy that can do it on clay, but it is going
to be difficult to see that. If one day it rains or something, then, it is even harder as
well as Cincinnati and Toronto, it is too close to each other. I don't know. I thought the
same before my match. It is not because I just lost - that I am upset. I mean, my ideas
were the same before. That is clear? 
 
Q. Yes. In fact, in general terms you think the calendar is perhaps one of the most
difficult problems the game has still got to deal with because it is not just the points
you have raised now with the Tennis Masters Series, but for years they have been talking
about a third week between the French and Wimbledon which hopefully we are going to get in
2004? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: 2000 what? 
 
Q. 2004.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Okay. 
 
Q. Davis Cup weeks which certainly at least two of them are very bad weeks.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: We have really good things. It means that the Tour is pretty strong;
everybody wants to invest money there because they want to have tournaments all around the
world. That is good for the players. It is better than not having a tournament for two
months. That is true. But the important tournaments, they should get some space between
each other, to get ready and to prepare yourself and everybody will be there 100%. That is
my point of view. I know it is difficult, but it is also -- it is too hard to finish,
let's say, Hannover the end of December or the end of November, sorry, or beginning of
December playing Davis Cup final and then fly to Melbourne beginning of January. That is,
for me, that is too much. Or just pull out from the tournaments like the big guys do. Why
is Sampras not here? Because he won Ericsson Open. He played Davis Cup; then he said, it
is not worth it for me to go to Monte Carlo and play. I prefer not to play and just put
zero points on my computer, it doesn't matter because when I come stronger, I will be
100%. 
 
Q. Obviously it is not good for the game for the top players to be burnt out too
quickly.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Of course not. I mean, I believe that is one of the points what players,
they don't feel really well about it or they retired maybe early than they should because
when they are 28, 29 years old they just want to be home because they travel all around
through the whole year and that is too much as well playing in a lot of tournaments. I
don't know, that is my point of view. Maybe they believe I am crazy, but..... 
 
Q. I think you are right, actually.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Thank you. 
 
Q. This being said, are you going to play all the Master Series or are you considering
maybe skipping one?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I hope I won't play all of them. 
 
Q. You won't?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I hope not because it means I will play, well, the other ones, you know,
so I am saying that because if I just play, I would say, especially during the summertime,
if you play Gstaad; then you play Davis Cup and then they create another Championship
Series on clay and they put it before Cincinnati, one that we would on clay, but it is
before the mandatory hard courts on the other part of the world, maybe I prefer to go and
play Kitzbuhel; then go to Toronto. Then I will see if I go to Cincinnati. I don't want to
just get crazy. I just want to play my tennis, just enjoy, you know, and relax. It is not
possible -- all the sport they have like offseason, you know, we don't have any offseason.
So we get really tired before -- I mean, we are not that old and we get older everyday.
But it is good. I love the Tour and I don't complain about the Tour, ATP, it is great
because we have the opportunity to do what we always been dreaming so that is completely
sure. But there are some points that -- I think they are not that difficult to solve --
they are difficult to solve but they are not impossible. So they should think about it.
That is my point, my meaning. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT