TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is there no end to Spain's sporting successes? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I wish, of course, we are trying hard. We are working hard. It
seems like everything goes in a good way right now, soccer, tennis, athletics, I don't
know, what else. 
 
Q. Ballesteros played brilliantly.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Golf, yeah, he played brilliantly, I heard. At least I am glad I am in
this position as well because I can be one of the sportsmen but I cannot be there, still
they are hanging. 
 
Q. A lot of players seem to be having a big problem, especially this year, I think of
transferring from hard courts to clay. You don't seem to be having a problem.
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: The problem I had it many years ago and fortunately for me I saw the
problem because I start to realize that I also can play on hard courts. That is a good
advantage for my game because even if I am not playing well on clay I know that I can go
on hard courts and play successful as well. It is always difficult to go from hard courts
to clay because people believe that they are going to make aces every time or they are
just going to go on the court and after one hour they are going to be out and that is not
true. On clay you have got to be patient; you have got to be really fit, especially
physically, and it is also hard mentally because if you cannot keep on going for two,
three hours, you are out of the tournament. That is why we see already two Spanish guys
there and there are some Argentinians as well as because we prepare the season very hard,
especially physically and the results are there. 
 
Q. Winning Indian Wells and doing well so far here, it appears that you are back to
your best. How do you now view 1999 on the back of winning the Masters? Can you explain
what happened last year?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Well, I think I said in Indian Wells already that it was good to see
that I was able to win big tournaments again and it seems that I was in a good way. I
think I told you that once I get to the Masters two years ago and when I won it, before I
pass for Finals in French Open, I won Dubai, I won Indianapolis, so you got to go step by
step and tournament by tournament. The main thing for me in this moment I really focus on
the big tournaments. I don't spend that much time in the other tournaments because I like
to play well in these Master Series. They are special tournaments and it is good for your
game and it is good for tennis because when you win these tournaments you go high in the
rankings. You believe more in yourself and you get ready for the Grand Slams which are the
other goals for the players. So for me, this events, these Master Series events are as
important as the Grand Slams because everybody is playing here. So I believe we should
think about it and we should maybe even give more points for winning these tournaments
because sometimes in a Grand Slam you don't play with three or four Top-10 players, it can
happen in this tournament to win the tournament, so, it is good to see that I am able to
play on hard courts, Indian Wells and now here. About last year, I talk about it many
times, and the good news is that I am back here, so I don't want to think about the past.
It is unnecessary right now for me. 
 
Q. Do you think your game is now fully back to where you want it to be?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, right now, yes. I got to say, I am in a really good way because
physically I feel perfect on the court and mentally as well. Main thing for me is I go on
the court and trying to do my game again. I am not waiting for the mistakes of the other
guys. Sometimes you got to be patient. Sometimes you got to play from the baseline, but
once you get the chance, you got to try to attack. You got to try to do something with the
ball. And I believe I have been doing this already since two, three months ago. The main
point was getting back from Australia and knowing that even if I lost badly I was in a
good way and still believing in myself. There was a point where maybe many people thought
it would be the end of my tennis results, of my career, but fortunately, I wasn't thinking
that way. It is good to see that I can be on the court having fun and playing good tennis;
especially here. I mean, it is just so nice even having an interview here with all this
background. So everything seems to be really nice. I am talking about you guys - (Laughs)
- You look really nice. (Laughs). 
 
Q. Along with Alex Corretja back here doing well, at Indian Wells, this tournament, we
have also got Ferrero who is playing here for the first time and the other night he was
given an award. What is your impression of his game and development, Alex?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I am completely impressed with this guy. He is an unbelievable good
player. The good thing is that he is even a better guy than a player and that is real
important. He is going to be really good. He is already really good and he is going to
make the main step just winning one of these tournaments. I hope it is not going to be
this week because if I win in quarters maybe I will see him in semifinals. But I can tell
you the way he focus his game and the way he plays is really impressive. Because he is
hitting the ball so hard. He is really aggressive. He is just 20 years old, so he has
still many things to learn. And he is going to be good on every surface, that is really
good these days. He already showed that he can play well on hard courts, even indoors
which he played pretty well last year in Bercy. At this moment we can count him as well
for Davis Cup as he shows because he was playing unbelievable tennis against Kafelnikov
first time he played and, you know, always they talk really about Davis Cup especially in
small countries, it seems like it is something you talk about, taboo things, it is like
Davis Cup, pressure, you know, every place there is pressure and every place -- everybody
wants to play. The guy didn't show any nerves or anything. So I hope he is going to be
really good and he is going to be soon, I believe, Top-10 for sure. 
 
Q. For all those things you just said about him, do you think he has got an better
long-term potential than someone like Lleyton Hewitt who is, say, ahead of him in terms of
the public perception?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No, both of them are great players. Once I believe talking in Australia
I said that I believe that these guys cannot take like -- cannot last like ten years
playing the Top-10 game because it is really difficult. You can see this tournament, maybe
or most of the seeded players they are gone, so it shows that everybody plays well from
the first day. But I believe Ferrero and he, they are going to be one of the best guys on
the Tour for sure. I really see that they are going to be really good because they can
play everywhere. That is a good advantage. So I don't know how far, but I believe Ferrero
has really good chances to do something big this year and Lleyton, he did it already, so
they both are great. 
 
Q. Three Spanish teams in the semifinal of the Champions League. Looks like Roland
Garros?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. I wish. It happens already once two years ago and it is a
good news for our soccer, as I said. It is quite impressive the way they played. Valencia
played unbelievable first match and then they saved the second one. Barcelona was huge
what they did and even more Madrid. Winning yesterday after 0-3 and then the guys start to
play really well, a lot of pressure to them, but I was watching the match and I was really
impressed about the way they played, honestly. It was good for Spanish soccer. 
 
Q. You like a Spanish player winning Wimbledon -- (inaudible) --
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I can see easy winning Madrid matches than Spanish guy winning
Wimbledon. 
 
Q. Moya?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Moya will have a really good chance winning Wimbledon if he really
prepare well honestly. He has the potential to do it. But he needs to get back to his best
and then he will be -- he has really a lot of talent to do that in a good way. 
 
Q. As you have such a big Davis Cup tie straight after Wimbledon this year, will you be
playing Wimbledon or will you --
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: That is difficult to say right now. It is a matter of time and it will
depend how we do on clay court. I mean, if we really play really successfully on clay
court tournaments, then we have to see how tired we are, if we need a rest, if it is worth
it to go to Wimbledon. At the beginning it seems that it is good to go to Wimbledon and it
is not something like a Spanish guys don't like Wimbledon. I think we like to play there,
but the problem is when you play a lot of matches, a lot of tournaments on clay, and then
you need a rest; especially with our game. Wimbledon to French Open is really close to
each other so that is why sometimes we prefer not to go and rest and then continue with
the summer season, otherwise, for us it is too much. That is why sometimes we don't go.
But it is a good question because we talk about it already and we have to see how it goes. 
 
Q. Will Ferrero be the same or do you think Ferrero is a player that can go and play on
grass? 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: He will play. He can completely play because his groundstrokes are hard
and he has good return and he needs to improve his serve, he will do it. So he can play
also well. But as I said, it is a matter of time and it is also a matter of how tired he
is after clay court season. I don't know how many matches he is going to win, but as he
has been playing I think he is going to win a lot on clay at this stage. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT