TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 16, 2000
Alex Corretja
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: Alex's first quarterfinal here at Indian Wells, and his fifth time playing
here. He'll be going for his second semifinal of the year.  
 
Q. How were you able to turn things around today? Down the first set, came back. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yeah, it was kind of difficult to start. As you know, I finished pretty
late last night. It was a kind of different game. At the beginning, I didn't find myself
pretty well on the court. He was playing pretty deep, with a lot of good slices, he was
serving well, as well. It was difficult for me to find my rhythm. Once I find it, I
believe I was much better than him. Maybe he was also tired from yesterday, you never
know. It seems that once I step on the court with my game, I play really nice, nice shots. 
 
Q. You seem to be back playing some of your best tennis. Do you agree with that?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes, I agree with that, fortunately. As you know, it's been a while for
me to be a hundred percent again. It was never easy for me last year. In this moment, I
feel like I'm coming back. It's good because even if I didn't play well, I still am like
26 in the ranking, which means I'm not losing on the rankings, you know. I have the chance
to come back again to see if I can reach other good tournaments. I'm happy. This is the
first time I reached the quarters, as Miki said. It's nice to play well here.  
 
Q. What went wrong before? A matter of injuries?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Many things. I've been already talking a lot about these things. Still I
can say that after '98, which was my best year, as you know, everything unbelievable for
me, I did a lot of things back in Spain. I didn't have much time to rest. I didn't have
much time to enjoy my life. I get tired of everything, of tennis, of interviews, of going
outside on the street because everybody was recognizing me. At the beginning, it was
difficult to handle it. You got to get used to. I was not tired of them; I was tired of
the situation. I wanted to rest and I never find the time. So that's why I need some time.
Then once I just rest a little bit, I came back strongly. I've been practicing pretty hard
in December. I came to Australia, it seems that I was playing okay. Somehow I just play so
bad in The Open. It make me feel bad because I thought I was in a good way, and that loss,
it didn't help, you know. But then I play again Davis Cup. I saw there was something wrong
in Australia, that was all. Right now, since that day, I think I just lost a match against
Costa last week, and I had a match point. It means probably I'm in a good way again. 
 
Q. What about your health? You had some problems last year. 
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: When you are physically exhausted and you are almost like running every
year, just running every match, winning matches like I did in '98, you got to rest, and I
didn't. My health, it was not too good. I was like tired the whole day. I didn't want to
play tennis. I didn't want to do anything. I just wanted to lay on my bed and listen to
music, just to be at home. Once you are on the court, you got to run. Everybody needs to
fight, and I couldn't do that. 
 
Q. And now you enjoy it again, being on the court?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Yes, of course. I always enjoyed to be on the court. But when you are
really tired, you don't like to do anything. It was not a matter of tennis; it was a
matter of life. Just physically and mentally like dead, you know. 
 
Q. When did you feel that the desire was back?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: Already here in Indian Wells last year, I was 6-4, 4-1 up against
Philippoussis. I start to feel like I was really tired. He came back strongly. He won the
tournament. After we play Davis Cup against Brazil in Spain and I couldn't move anymore.
Since that day I saw I need a rest. I didn't play Monte-Carlo, I didn't play Hamburg. I
came strong, play well in Rome, French Open. Again, I get an allergy because my defense
were really down, I didn't have like power. That's why after I would say September or
something, I just play some indoor tournaments. I didn't care so much because I just
wanted to keep in touch with the ball, but not like hundred percent into it. I don't know.
I believe now I'm like playing every point, like fighting again. I can see that I can run,
hit my shots. I'm enjoying because once you see that you can come back again on tennis
court and do your best, it's always good.  
 
Q. Can you talk about the next Davis Cup tie against Russia, how the coaching changes
worked in Spain?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I don't know. I mean, on this moment, we don't think about Davis Cup. I
just talking that we played Davis Cup before. It's going to be a difficult tie for us, but
at least we play in Spain, we play on clay. I think we really have a good team no matter
who plays. We don't know the team yet. About the Davis Cup captains thing, it's a matter
of friendly thing that we have in Spain. It's good that we can do that.  
 
Q. You still enjoy playing on these hard courts instead of clay?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I always prefer to play on court clay. It's normal. I was born on clay.  
 
Q. When we see you playing like you played tonight...
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: I play great tennis, and I play great tennis last night. Apparently it
seems like strange, but I win my best tournament on indoors. It seems that I can play
everywhere. Of course, I prefer to play on clay. I feel much better on the court. I know
how to move better. Now I think I get used to, since we have to play much more tournaments
on this surface. Now we have mandatory events, most of them on hard courts. I believe it's
unfair, but we have to get used to. From these 13 tournaments, we will have six on clay
and seven on hard courts, it would be another story. Since we cannot do that, we have to
improve our games on hard courts. That's why we did it. Not me, just all the Spanish
players in general. 
 
Q. What is your schedule on clay, a tough one?
 
 ALEX CORRETJA: No. Monte-Carlo, Barcelona, Hamburg, Rome and Paris. It's not a very
tough one, unless I won all of them.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT