WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Magnus Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Magnus Norman.  
 
Q. Do you make a habit of giving your racquet to ball girls?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: No. I thought it was the only thing. I was playing so poorly, so I
thought, "Hey, she's going to do better than me." She actually did. 
 
Q. Can you put your finger on what went wrong today?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Not really. I mean, the grass is not my surface, you know. I have
problems with my groundstrokes on grass because the ball bounces so much lower. I like it
when it bounces a little bit higher so I can step into the ball. Now rather I get a little
bit scared. I can't hit through the balls. But other than that, you know, I felt fine from
the beginning. I fell over a little bit in the fourth set, I think. That hurt me on the
right leg a little bit, so I was cramping in the fifth set, and after the match now I've
been cramping very badly. That maybe affected it, the fifth set, a little bit. 
 
Q. Any sign of mental or physical exhaustion from the great run you've had?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: A little bit. I haven't really recovered yet a hundred percent, both
mentally and physically. I think more mentally. What I did in Paris and the weeks leading
up to Paris was something very big for me. I think it's going to take, you know, more than
two weeks to get over those weeks. Hopefully I can continue from now to forget about it
and just focus on the next match.  
 
Q. Jim Courier retired recently. You mentioned before you patterned your game on his.
Could you in short form tell us why you patterned your game on him, what you feel he
contributed to tennis in his career overall?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: He was working so hard. I tried to copy that. I spoke to his coach a
little bit, Brad Stein, I think. I always admired his work. He's a very laid back guy. He
doesn't say a lot of things. He lets the racquet do the talking. I kind of like that. I
think we're pretty similar as persons, as well. 
 
Q. Did you ever have a chance to speak with him? Did you have a relationship with him
before he quit playing?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Not a relationship. What do you mean?  
 
Q. Has different meanings in English. 
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: No, not really. I always tried to practise with him. I always came up to
him and asked if he could practise because he always gave a hundred percent, doesn't
matter if it's up on Court 23 or Centre Court. I tried to copy that. 
 
Q. You did practise with him?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Yeah, many times.  
 
Q. Were you surprised by his play? Have you seen him before?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: No, I haven't. He beat Fromberg the other day, so he must be a good
player. I was not playing up to my standard today. All credit to him. He probably played
the best match of his career. You know, my game was not working. I was too short. As I
said, when the ball is not bouncing up, my groundstrokes get very bad, as well. I'm a
little bit disappointed, of course. 
 
Q. Did he look as small on the court to you as he did to us?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: He looked small before the match, but he was growing (laughter).  
 
Q. You tried to serve-and-volley today, change it up a little bit. The volley didn't
seem like you were really knocking it off, hitting it sharply. 
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: I wasn't sharp at all, even my groundstrokes. My serve wasn't there. I
made too many foot faults. It was not my match today. As always, I gave 110%. Even though
I didn't play my best tennis, I gave him a good fight anyway. 
 
Q. Have you ever foot faulted so much in a match?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: No. Something I have to practise on.  
 
Q. In Rome you said that the Swedish press is not following you that much. After Roland
Garros, are they growing?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Absolutely. Absolutely. I got so much press after Rome and after Paris.
Everything changed. I'm just very happy about that. Even though I lost in Paris, I got
very good press at home. People really appreciate what I was doing there. 
 
Q. You were almost a winner there. Do you feel like a loser still after the match, the
finals? You said even though it was a great match, you felt like a loser. Do you still
feel that way?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Yeah, of course. Day-by-day I think -- I have to forget about it. It's
still there a little bit. I'm still mentally a little bit tired. I'm still physically a
little bit tired. I think I'm going to get over it, have a few clay court tournaments to
look forward to now before I go to the States to prepare for the hard court summer. I'm
really hoping to do well there, to be fresh both physically and mentally.  
 
Q. What is your hard court schedule in the US?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Toronto, Cincinnati, then I have a week off, Long Island and the US
Open. Hard court is my second best surface after clay, so I'm really looking forward for
that. For me Wimbledon came a little bit too close to the French Open. That's the
schedule. But I hope to come back here next year and have a better preparation maybe, to
play maybe at Queen's or something before, to be able to do well here.  
 
Q. Do you appreciate better what your countryman, Bjorn Borg, accomplished by winning
back-to-back Paris and Wimbledon on so many occasions?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Yes. Like Sampras, what he's doing, it's amazing. Like Wilander had in
1980, he won the Australian Open, French, quarters here, won the US Open. That's a hell of
a year. Now I understand what it takes to be up here where I am right now. 
 
Q. In my country there is a proverb. If a crazy man says he's crazy, then he's not
crazy. You always say that you're boring. Do you really think that you're boring?
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: I don't say I'm boring. It's you guys who write that in the papers. You
guys have to tell me what to do to not be boring because you keep writing that all the
time. I'm just trying to be myself. If you want to write that I'm boring, it's up to you.
Nothing I can do about it. Just if you ask my friends, I think they're going to say
something different.  
 
Q. I don't think so. I just asked. 
 
 MAGNUS NORMAN: Good. Then write that tomorrow.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT