NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 8, 1999
Bobby Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, can you talk about what John is going through physically this year and what
John had to do to continue to pitch?
 
 BOBBY COX: He went through quite a bit, I guess, in spring training in the beginning of
the season, and I decided to drop his arm angle down some to take the pressure off his
elbow and he's never felt better. Ever since he did that, he's had absolutely no pain, and
I don't think I've seen John throw any harder than he is now. He's really popping the ball
and its got really good movement to it. He's really at the top of his game right now and
right now, unless he's fibbing, he's 100 percent. 
 
Q. Bobby, does your team play better when its looser and, if so, what could you do to
try to take the pressure, the edge off a little bit this time of year?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't know if there is such a thing as playing loose in these things,
period. You know, I think everybody gets a little nervous at the beginning of all the
games and then it's gone, you know. It's not just another ballgame. There's too much
riding on it, so there's always certain amount of, I guess, pressure or whatever, you
know, wanting to win so. We are as loose as we can be, like anybody else. The other teams
are probably exactly the same way. I mean, try to be loose, but it's kind of up to the
individual. 
 
Q. What type of (inaudible) if they beat their own today in their own park?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't really know. I think both ballparks are equally matched for the most
part. It would be great to beat Mike today, and I'm sure they are saying the same thing.
We've got a two-time Cy Young Award that's really throwing the ball really well right now,
Tommy Galvine. So today is really like the first game. It's a very big ballgame and the
second game was big for us because we had to get back in this thing and we did. I don't
think you send any messages, honestly. I mean, I don't recall anybody ever sending me or
my team a message by beating us, you know. 
 
Q. Bobby, are you concerned that umpires might keep a tight zone tonight?
 
 BOBBY COX: I don't really know. I don't even know who is umpiring behind homeplate
tonight, but we will abide by what he rules, you know. If he establishs his strike zone,
he establishes it and that's even for both teams. It really doesn't make any difference. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT