NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 10, 1998
Bobby Cox
Denny Neagle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Have you had a chance to look at the field, and did the football game yesterday set
you back that much, not having a chance to practice?
 
 BOBBY COX: You know, actually I think not working out probably was a good thing. We've
played this park many times. And we know the angles in the outfield are a little
different. And probably not working out probably helped them more than going ahead and
having a workout. And it may be a blessing in disguise. The field looks terrific. The
ground crew here -- this happened to us once before when Navy played here last season, and
the field was turned around and it looked super. It looks great now. You've got a ground
crew you can really be proud of. I don't know how they do it, but they do it. 
 
Q. Every time they play the afternoon -- particularly late afternoon games here,
there's a lot of talk about shadows. What's your experience here about what you think
those 5 o'clock games will be like?
 
 BOBBY COX: Well, some guys can hit in them and some can't. Once you start spreading
around the dugout, "I can't see the ball," pretty soon everybody is afflicted
with that disease. I don't think Tony Gwynn has trouble seeing that time of day. Those
shadows are tough, and you can't see the spin properly, and it makes it double tough. The
concentration has to go to a different level with these hitters. It's tougher, you bet it
is. 
 
Q. Would you almost prefer that the players don't talk so much about it?
 
 BOBBY COX: I would, personally, but invariably somebody is going to come back mad, and
say "I can't see the God damned ball," you know. 
 
Q. You've got 65,000 fans here today. Is that the largest crowd the Braves will play in
front of this year, and what effect will that have? You had some empty seats in Atlanta
the first two games, and is that going to make a little more of a barrier for you today?
 
 BOBBY COX: I think it's around the largest crowd, yeah. We don't have a stadium we play
in that can accommodate that many people anywhere. Maybe it will help us. You know, the
home field advantage, sure didn't do much for us. Maybe seeing all the seats full will
help. It still comes down to holding the other team, and hope that you cross home plate
one more time than they do. The hometown crowd or the home field advantage put the
Yankees, '96 that one year, we went up the first year, and slugged the ball all over the
place, and came home and got swept by them. There's certain ball parks -- years ago,
certain clubs that Ozzie Smith played on with Coleman and Willie McGee and those guys, if
the Cardinals opened up, I think the home field advantage in those days, that would have
been huge for that team, because they were an astroturf team. 
 
Q. Bobby, if you went down 3-0, would you be thinking about bringing Smoltz?
 
 BOBBY COX: No, Denny is ready to go, chomping at the bit. And we've got all the
confidence in the world with Denny. Denny got nipped last year for the Cy Young; had
another stellar season this year, and had plenty of rest. And Denny is on top of his game
right now. So I just feel we need to go to Denny. 
 
Q. Would you describe the mood around the team right now? Is there any sense of like
surprise or desperation or anything like that?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: I don't think so. I think we know we ran up against some good pitching
with the San Diego Padres. We knew we wanted to jump out and get the first game against
Ashby. He's a great pitcher, too, but going in Game 2 with Kevin Brown we would have our
hands full. But it seems like particularly in the postseason he's been on top of his game.
We knew it would be a hard fought, pitching type games, and that's what it turned out to
be. Unfortunately, we've been on the short end. As far as the mood, everybody is not down,
not pressing about anything. We've had a lot of guys in the locker room that have been
through the wars before, and they know what to expect. Bobby and I talked about it today.
We are going to go out and try to win one game and go from there.  
 
Q. When is the last time you pitched?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: Last time I pitched was the second to the last game of the season, two
innings in relief. And it works out that way. They haven't needed me the last couple of
years in the division series. Last year I was to start the 4th game of the series, and I
got a couple of games in the first game of the LCS and then this year made my start. I had
some bursitis in my shoulder, but it's better now. Got some cortisone shots, and got my
rest, and I feel confident starting. 
 
Q. Have you had the Cortisone shots since the end of the season?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: I got it right after the season was over. So it gave me time before the
division series started, and obviously plenty of time now to get my rest. That's what you
need when you get a cortisone shot you need three or four days off. It takes a couple of
weeks to get out of there. It's just what the doctor ordered, and like I said I'm feeling
confident, I'm feeling healthy and ready to go. 
 
Q. Does it take much to re-find the strike zone when you've been off this long?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: Well, I don't think so for the type of pitcher I am. I've always been a
controlled pitcher. I'm not one that's sometimes effectively wild or anything like that,
anyway. I think the telltale for me, which it always is is the first inning. You go out
there and get the butterflies out of your system. And obviously like we talked about
earlier, the fact I haven't pitched in a regular season or any kind of postseason game
yet, those are the type of things you have to go through and experience first, to get out
of your system. And usually if I get through the first inning and settle down, I'm good
from there. But I don't expect to incur any kind of control problems or anything like that
tomorrow. 
 
Q. Was the bursitis restrictive or annoying and how long had it bothered you?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: It started like -- I missed two starts before the -- my last start of the
season. And it kind of started -- more or less towards the end of August. Usually most
pitchers go through the dead arm or sore arm season. And I pitched through a couple of
starts where it was nagging. And that's when I needed some time off, and just kind of got
some treatment at that point, but it was a little bit nagging. That's where I injured
myself. As far as I know, I can get through an injury or soreness, if if it's impinging me
or nagging me, or if it's annoying a little bit, and something you can pitch through. When
I got to the point I couldn't follow through and get my release point, I knew I had to
miss a couple of starts. And at that point it helped me out. And the fact was that
fortunately with the first one they didn't need me. And right now it worked out I didn't
pitch in the first game in relief. It's been what the doctor ordered. It's no longer
nagging. I've thrown to some BP hitters and to the side. I was ready to go in the division
series, and it's felt good every time I've been warming up and throwing for the hitters,
so I'm confident it's better. 
 
Q. Was it an accumulation of innings or cold weather or something you did?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: It was just an an accumulation of innings. Like I said, I think every
pitcher goes through it once or twice during the course of a season. It's just a matter of
-- like we talked about, whether it's something a slight bit of fatigue or soreness or
something like that, or if it gets to the point where it really does impinge you or bother
you that much so you can't throw a good side shot without it bothering you. I'd throw in
the bullpens or it took a long time to get loose for some of my starts; that's when you
know you've got an injury, when it takes a long time to get loose and after you start it
starts bothering you right after you start pitching. At that point I knew I had to do
something. 
 
Q. Is this in your shoulder or your elbow?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: My shoulder. That's where I get my pain or soreness, in the back of my
shoulder. And I've had it almost all the time in the years past. Every pitcher goes
through it. It's just at this point it was impinging me too much, and I needed to nip it
in the bud. 
 
Q. Have you taken shots before for this?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: I had a cortisone shot -- actually never really in my pitching shoulder.
This is the first time I needed it in my pitching shoulder. Last year I had the weird
injury in my right shoulder. I tore my right rotator cuff, and had some cortisone shots
there. Leave it to a left-hander to do that in his right shoulder. I've had cortisone
shots before, but not in the pitching shoulder. 
 
Q. Could you talk a little bit about last year when you pitched in the NLCS? It had
been a while since you had thrown, and could you compare it to now?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: I think that's what I'm feeling on this year, and I'm going to try to
remember what I did last year, and the fact that I was talking about earlier the fact that
I didn't pitch in the division series last year. And it had been a while, like 9 or 10
days since I had picked up a ball in any kind of game, and it worked out last year that
Bobby got me to three innings in Game 1, and we lost to the Marlins in the NLCS. It kind
of knocked the rust off. But had I not pitched in the first game, I would have felt
confident going into that game. Because last year, I had the right shoulder, I had to get
another shot before the -- even though it was my right shoulder, I had to alter my
mechanics, and I felt confident, and I picked up where I left off. And that's what I
foresee tomorrow. I don't think the time off right now has hurt me at all. I think it's
helped me, if anything, and I expect to go out there and be on top of my game and give our
team the best chance to win the game tomorrow.  
 
Q. Can you talk about you and Tony Gwynn: A staff that Tony actually has done pretty
well over the years, can't buy a hit off you.
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: It's one of those weird things in baseball. You own certain teams, you
own certain hitters, and vice-versa. Sometimes there's a certain team you can't get out or
I hitter you can't get out. Tony Gwynn, in my eyes and a lot of eyes, is probably the best
hitter in baseball. But I've taken the approach that I don't try to make the nasty pitches
against Tony. When you do make the perfect pitch, you're playing into his ballgame because
he's watching for it. Johnson threw a slider, and he lays it down the left field line, and
that's how good Tony is. I take the approach, I go after him aggressively and make good
quality strikes, good quality pitches, I should say. I don't try to make the perfect
pitch. I attack them with strikes, because you're pretty much not going to strike him out.
He strikes out once every 90 at-bats, it seems. Go after him aggressively, and hopefully
he hits it at somebody, and I hope he does it again tomorrow. 
 
Q. What do you think about your approach to the Game 4 change, depending on the results
of this game?
 
 DENNY NEAGLE: My approach isn't going to change. I took the approach last year, when we
were down 2 games to 1 against the Marlins series last year, and actually the year before
that, '96 NLCS against the Cardinals, we were down two games when I started in Game 4.
Sometimes it does get frustrating that you get the questions: Do you think they'll go back
to Smoltz, or bring back Maddux. And I have enough confidence in my ability to focus under
these situations that I go out there with the same approach, that I'm going to attack
these guys with my best stuff, and like I said give our team a chance to win the ballgame.
Whether we're up three games to nothing, or up three games to nothing, whatever it is, my
approach is if we do lose the series, I'm not going to look back and say I was too nervous
or fell a little short in my start. I want to look at myself this winter and say I did
give everything I had. And if we lose, we lose. But I have to give the team the best
chances to win the game. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT