NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 7, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just last week you were in the same situation down 3-1; now you are up 3-1. Does
that help you being maybe not being overconfident?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I don't think so. I think they are different situations. I think we
are talking about -- I think we are talking about both sides, if that is a question maybe
for Dallas or how do they feel, are they -- do they feel that they can keep coming back,
you know, maybe I could answer it. But I think we just got to keep all those distractions
about what happened before and what we did before and what has to be done, just throw them
out window. We have got to prepare for this like this is the 7th game of a Stanley Cup
Final and not look at, well, you know, we came back from a 3-1, so Dallas is looking at
that. You don't want to look at reasons for not playing well or reasons for playing well
by looking back at what you did. I think the best thing that we can do is try to prepare
ourselves for the first shift of the first period and go from there and play hard. 
 
Q. A lot of Hall of Fame players have -- a lot of them have thought about coaching but
then a lot of them shied away from it because they find that it is more difficult to try
and get other people to play well than it was get themselves playing well. And that they
find there is an element of frustration there
why-can't-you-do-what-I-did-when-I-played-type-thing. Has there ever been any of that for
you and can you talk a little bit about the satisfaction you get from coaching?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, the only reason there hasn't been any part of that is that when I
retired, the first thing that I was told by a couple of veteran players is that the best
thing you can do is get away from the game for a year and do something else. Basically
that is what I did. So by the time that I got the call from Lemaire I have been asked the
question so much whether I wanted to be a coach or not, I decided to give it a try. Really
that is how I got into this. It wasn't -- when I retired it just wasn't one of my first
thoughts of getting into the coaching profession. But as I said, it was asked of me so
many times, I said, might as well give it a try and see if I like it. I was fortunate to
come here and work with Jacques Lemaire for a couple of years and then I was given a
chance to try to be head coach. And it was the same type of situation never going to know
until you try it. I actually do enjoy it. And I think the thing that made me enjoy it the
most was winning the Cup as an assistant and getting some tremendous satisfaction out of
seeing grown men crying; being unable to go out on the ice; sees guys that have been in
and near the end of their careers and being in the League for fourteen or fifteen years be
as happy as they were and it is a feeling that you want to have back and so I think that
is what keeps me going the most is seeing people happy when they have success and success
that doesn't necessarily have to be yours, I think. I have never been a selfish person, so
I get more satisfaction out of seeing other people happy than necessarily myself. 
 
Q. Can you kind of summarize what you have gotten on this run to the Stanley Cup from
your players? It would seem like you have gotten stuff from the young guys, goal keeping,
when you need it, seems like everything a coach could want from a team?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, we have had our bad days too. That is part of the coaching
profession. It is a very roller-coasterly ride. You have your good days and your bad days,
but I think the good days outweigh the bad in that you know, when you get this far it is
such a happy feeling and such a great feeling that you don't want to let it slip away. I
think that is what makes the Playoffs so special is that there is a lot of hard work and a
lot of dedication and focus and everything else that goes into being successful and I
think that players that work hard and are successful in sports and maybe not so much in
other sports, I know in our sport, if they can go through what we are going through when
they get out into life and get away from hockey I think they can hope, with everything
else that goes on, because you learn how to be a winner, you learn how to cope with
adversity and I think you learn a lot about yourself. 
 
Q. Following up, in your answer to the last question you talked about how satisfying it
is to see other people succeed. I have talked to a couple of your younger players, young
defensemen. They talk about what a great influence you have been on their development.
That must make you feel extremely proud. Can you talk about that?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I think that is what it is all about. That is what coaching is.
Coaching is about teaching and anybody that says that there is no teaching in the NHL
hasn't been involved in coaching because in some cases the teaching starts here. You
expect them to come in and know different things and know how to do different things and
you find out a lot of them have never been taught the right way to play the game and that
is all you got to do. It is not about changing anybody's -- the way that they play or
changing their character or anything else, it is trying to mold their abilities that they
have and perfecting them into making them a better person and a better player. So that is
all you do. You try -- you try to have fun and make it if you know for them because this
game is supposed to be fun. You try to give them little tidbits here and there that you
think might improve their game and might help them to make them a better player. 
 
Q. Jason Arnott, how did he look to you and will he be able to play tomorrow?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yes, yes and yes. 
 
Q. How did he look to you, yes?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yes. 
 
Q. Seriously, how?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: He was fine. He was fine, a little stiff the next day, but so was I.
But... 
 
Q. He had an excuse.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, right. I just had a bad bed. No, he was fine. He skated well this
morning and he is fine. 
 
Q. Even for a very disciplined hockey team, how tough is it not to want to retaliate
for that Hatcher hit and also you get last change again, what matchup do you like on that
Modano line?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, first of all, hockey is not about retribution. I think what
happened, happened and if the League chooses to do something about it then, fine. If not,
then the most important thing here is winning a hockey game; not getting somebody back. We
have taken great strides over the last part of this year and into the Playoffs of being
very disciplined in all situations and this is just another case of us having to be
disciplined and more disciplined. I think we took a lot of needless penalties the other
night that is going to come back to haunt us if we do it again because that is a terrific
team with a great powerplay and we are not going to expect to kill all those powerplays
off and we are not expecting to be able to score shorthanded goals as well. So it is going
to be very, very important for us to keep our discipline and to keep our focus. As far as
matchups I am not going to tell you what I am going to match anyway, so..... 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT