NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 4, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. A lot has been made of Dallas' ability to bounce back after losses, especially in
the Playoffs. You guys saw it in Game 2. How do you prep for what -- expected attack that
you are going to see tomorrow night?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: We got to be prepared like we were for Game 1. I mean, again, we can't
worry about what they are going to do. We have to be ready for and expect their best game.
We realize that it is a big game for both teams, and so we have to be prepared for it. 
 
Q. A lot has been made about the chats you had with certain players. Is too much being
made about your influence, your tongue-lashing, or is this something that should be
considered very significant?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No, I didn't -- didn't tongue-lash anybody. I just spoke to a couple
players involved and -- but that -- I mean, it is routine. I am sure Hitchy has talked to
a lot of his players as well. That is your job. Your job as coach is to get your players
to play the best that they can. So I am not doing anything different than anybody else. 
 
Q. Looks like you're having fun out there on the ice today.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Yeah, sure beats the treadmill. 
 
Q. How much control at this point do you guys think you have?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Nobody is in control. This is -- it's been a tough series. This is a
very exciting time of the year. Every game, every shift, every time you are on the ice,
you have to think of it as a do-or-die situation. Every mistake becomes more and more
important. And that is the way that you have to look at it. You have to play each shift
like it is your last shift. 
 
Q. Claude Lemieux built his representation as a Playoff guy with big goals at the right
times. Do you expect more from him, or are you pleased with the way he has played, or do
you expect to see more from him?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think I am not going to say that I expect more from Claude. I
think Claude right now is at times trying to do too much, a little over-aggressive at
times, and so he finds himself sometimes out of position because he is just trying to
maybe do too much. But you never belittle a player for trying too hard. That is basically
what he is trying to do right now is -- at times trying to do, maybe a little too much.
But every time he is on the ice he is very effective. 
 
Q. You said that you're expecting Dallas' best game tomorrow night. Do you think you
have seen their best game yet?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't know. What is their best game? I mean, again, I am not -- the
best is not to try to expect anything, just go out there and play as hard as you can and
try to limit the opponent from getting any good scoring chances. We know that they have
got some great hockey players over there. There is a lot of veteran hockey players that
have been in this situation before, so this is something that we are not really trying to
dwell on too much. We are just trying to concentrate and focus on what we have to do and
what we can do better. 
 
Q. As someone who believes in four lines and using six defensemen, how much more do you
think players come to appreciate using four lines, six defensemen - it is June 4th and it
is 90 degrees outside?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think that is where the advantage lies in teams that -- you
look at both our teams, both of our teams have -- believe in using most of their
personnel. And when you get to this point of the season, I think it becomes very important
not just because of the heat and humidity, just the long grind of the season. Guys get
tired. When guys get tired, they get injured. And so I also believe that there are times
where you have to cut your bench down. But any time that you can use most of your
personnel, it just -- it bodes well for times when, God forbid, you get into overtimes and
travelling and everything else. Then the more guys you use, the fresher everybody is. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Scott Niedermayer and Daneyko, what they have been able to do for
you all season, and especially against the Stars in these last three games?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, Dano and Nieder have been together for a number of years, have
played together for a long time. I think they know each other pretty well. They read off
of each other. You see them talking constantly. But I don't like to take anything away
from all of our defense. I think our defense has played extremely well and have had to.
You can't afford not to have everybody going even more so when you get to this juncture of
the season. These games are important. You have got the best teams going, and there is no
more tomorrows, so you have to do what you can now. But to answer your question, I think
that Dano has been a tower of strength out there, reacting very well in his own zone. And
Niedermayer has been carrying the puck out of danger. He made a game-saving play last
night on Modano when, I guess the last 20 or 30 seconds. So they both played terrific. 
 
Q. Your club has shut down Nieuwendyk to this point. What factors in your minds have
contributed to that, and also do you look at him also as time bomb that can go off?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You look at him as -- I mean, they said the same thing about him in the
Colorado series, next thing you know he has got an overtime goal and he is a terrific
faceoff man, he has been skating well. He has been getting some chances. You don't
completely eliminate a player of his talent, but you try to limit him as much as you can;
know that he is capable of scoring goals at any moment. You always have to be aware. He is
along the lines after Modano or a Hull, they don't need a lot of chances to score so we
have to be aware of him. 
 
Q. I want to take you back if I can, it's been often said that maybe one of your
periods where you came of age as a player was Montreal around 1974 against the Flyers.
There was a famous fight you had against Dave Schultz. Have you ever agreed with that
assessment that you came of age as a player? I wondered if there is a correlation between
that and the fact that what has often been cited as the turning point of the Philly series
was your dressing down -- pretty heated criticism of your style of play in Philadelphia?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I don't look back on my career as it is too damn long ago, so to
really answer your question, I don't really see where it has any bearing on what is
happening now. I try to keep my focus on here and now, but as far as the Philly series,
this was a gutsy performance by our players and they deserve the credit for it. All I was
doing was my job. My job, as I told Stan before, as a coach is try to prepare your
players. If you feel that they aren't playing up to their potential, then you have got to
get the point across to them to get them playing better. Too much is being made of it and
not enough credit is being given to the players for their execution of play on the ice. 
 
Q. Two victories from the Cup. Is this the most difficult temptation to look ahead to
resist?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You wouldn't be human if you weren't looking ahead. But I think that we
have tried to address all those things and realize that there is nothing we can do about
the game after. The only thing that we can worry about and have control over is our next
game and this is what we are trying to focus on right now, our next game, our first shift
and carry that throughout the next game. 
 
Q. How good has Colin White been considering his inexperience and how much does his
element of physicality that he brings, has it relieved some of Daneyko and Stevens'
burden?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: He has arrived at Playoffs time where it is a factor, but it is not a
major factor, but he has been a real physical presence out there and I think as these
Playoffs have worn along, we have kind of forgotten that he is still a rookie that just
came up. He has been playing with a lot of poise and both him and Malakhov have teamed up
and made a pretty good pairing, so I am very pleased with his play. 
 
Q. Lots of organizations have unique traits or qualities that are identifiable in that
organization and I think Lou Lamoriello has been associated with the Devils far as long as
he as and has strong philosophies how the game should be played. Lou's impact on this
franchise, your sense of it? What relation all of that has to the fact that you are in the
position that you are in right now?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I haven't been here as long as Lou has, but certainly since my
experience with this club, it has been my experience anyway that I was involved in the
Minor Leagues during the lockout and I saw the young kids that they have got down there,
Lou and his staff have really built a strong, strong foundation. All of the kids that they
have drafted are in the organization are not only good athletes and good players, but good
human beings as well. And I think that bodes well for the job that he has done. We have
been able to fill in with young kids through injuries, through some of the people that Lou
and his staff have drafted and so I think a lot of why we are here now has a lot to do
with the organization, how they have built their organization and depth. 
 
Q. Some people would suggest that some of Lou's concepts and philosophies are
old-fashioned. How much of a selling job is it to some of today's players to embrace
things that some people think may be a little bit not out of date, but certainly not as
fashionable as they once were?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't know, it seems to me that winning is always in date. That
winning doesn't get out of date and I think that is what this -- that is what this is all
really all about. Yes, we are in the entertainment business, but we are also in a business
and the business here is trying to win hockey games however you can. So what Lou has been
able to do is provide the best players available or best talent that is available so that
he can have a talented team year in, year out. I have heard a lot of stories about working
for Lou and the organization, everything else, all I can say is probably the finest
gentlemen that I have worked for and that I have ever had the pleasure ever being around. 
 
Q. You have had a lot of publicity for the guys who got the big goals. Can you comment
on two or three foot soldiers and their contributions people like Brylin, Pandolfo one or
two of those?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: You always have that on every club. You have the guys that score the
goals and get the accolades, but Sergei Brylin unfortunately was hurt for a couple of
games, but game-in/game-out he has been a real warrior; played some terrific hockey for
us. Madden and Pandolfo have been terrific penalty killers and Pando in a few of the
series gone up against other teams top lines so they have certainly done a great job. But
it is one of those things where you could go right on down the line and everybody has made
a contribution. I think that you can look -- do the same with Dallas, you can look at the
Dallas team and say, well, everybody talks about Modano and Hull and so on and so forth.
But the job that Carbonneau and Keane and Sloan and Sim and all these other guys that
skate and bang, and do their job, I mean, that is part of having a great team is that you
have to get a contribution from everybody. 
 
Q. Ken Hitchcock this morning was talking about his team having to raise to another
gear for tomorrow night's game. He said, I don't know whether I have the game, but I know
we have the gear because we did it; we won it last year. We know we have it. One, is it
still an advantage or is it an advantage for them having won last year and being down in a
series and two, do you know that your team has another gear within it for tomorrow night
or the next night or the next night?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't know another gear. Yeah, I think that our team can play better.
But at the same time, a lot of times we, as coaches, we look at our team and say, oh, gee,
we should have another gear, but we don't look at what the other team is doing to prevent
that. So if they feel that they have another gear, then we have to be prepared for that.
But they definitely do have an advantage the fact that they have had some veterans here
that know what it takes to win and they realize that this series is a long way from being
over. We are well aware of everything that they have to say and what they have done
before. Again, the only thing that we can and should be in control of is what we have to
do and we know that we have got to bring our best game and if they bring their best and we
bring our best game, then should make up for pretty exciting hockey. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT