NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
May 31, 2000
Larry Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Obviously after last night's loss, the Stars are going to come out and be desperate,
really flying around the ice tomorrow night trying to get a win in Game 2. What are you
guys going to try to do to kind of counteract their intensity and their aggressiveness?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, we have said right from the start you got -- the team that you
are playing against, they know we have to match their intensity certainly. I think we have
to keep our discipline. I know our guys took a lot of whacks and high sticks and elbows
and everything last night, and I thought we kept our composure very well. We are going to
have to continue doing that. We gave them a few chances. I mean Marty came up huge on that
Modano/Hull chance to score, I think it was in the second period. So we know that they
have got guys that can put the puck in the net, and you have to eliminate giving them any
kind of chances like that. 
 
Q. Do you sort of take a little bit of pride 24 hours or less later that you generated
all that offense, because the perception of your team is this choking defensive hockey
team that doesn't generate that kind of offense. Must make you proud to come off a 7-goal
effort.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: As long as we didn't put all our seven goals in one game. It is kind of
deceiving the scores of some of our games, because I know, I think in the first or second
game in Toronto we hit four goal posts, and a couple we had a couple of wide-open nets and
missed. So we have been kind of snake-bitten this whole Playoff series with our goal
output only because we, you know, we haven't had any luck. And so finally I think we had a
few lucky goals go in for us last night. I think more so than anything else it just gives
the guys that are getting those goals a little more confidence, and they will feel a
little bit better about themselves now that the puck is going in. 
 
Q. Any fear that there is a possibility that these guys are going to be satisfied with
their performance in Game 1, and maybe sit back a bit?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't think -- I don't fear satisfaction. But I fear that possibly we
may come out and not give the opponent the respect that they deserve. I mean, that is
always the case when you win a lopsided game like that, like the other night, and it is up
to me to have everybody prepared for tomorrow night's game. This is a huge game for our
club, and we can't afford to come out flat. They are going to come out flying. We know
that they are going to come out and try whatever they can. They don't want to go back down
2-to-nothing. And basically any road team, when they come into a visitor's building, are
satisfied and should be if they can go home with a split. I think that is what Playoff
hockey is all about. So I have said before that that is the -- not the unfortunate thing,
but that's how Playoffs are in that as soon as the first game is over, it is now lost and
forgotten. It doesn't -- you don't really carry it into the next game. Each game is its
own little series. So it is basically a little series of 7 here, and the first series is
over. Now we are on to series No. 2. That is the way you got to look at it. 
 
Q. Were you able to get up to Montreal today; and, if so, what was it like?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: No. Unfortunately we were scheduled to leave at 7:30 this morning, and
the plane that we were supposed to use we weren't able to take it, so we ran into some
problems. I did watch it on the tube this morning. 
 
Q. What was it like?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: It was a lot -- there was a lot of people there. But it was very
touching. Just goes to show you the popularity of the man. 
 
Q. Jason Arnott, has had a wonderful offensive Playoffs. In the whole scheme of things,
has he become the power forward that everybody thought he would be when he was first
drafted?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: Well, I think Jason can be as good as he wants to be. He had had a lot
of pressure on him, I think, when he was first drafted and a lot of high expectations.
Sometimes people need maturity and time to mature before they really hit their true
stride. But I think Jason is just now starting to grow into a complete hockey player, and
I think he can get a lot better. 
 
Q. The Arnott line, is that coaching, or do you recognize what is going on and just
stand back and watch and have a good time with these three kids?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: The stuff that you do -- you don't coach. A lot of the things they do,
it is -- it is just hockey talent and reading off of each other. They have played together
now for a season and a half, maybe two seasons, so -- I think they know where each other
is a lot of the times without having to look. However, they probably do look and we just
don't see them. But it is just sort of a chemistry thing with them and those are the type
of lines that make coaches look good. But I don't really try to teach them anything
offensively. I try to work with them a bit on their defensive positioning because a lot of
times your offensive players have a tendency sometimes to think too much offense and when
you get into the Playoffs you know chances against are as important as chances for. So as
long as they have got the puck and they are creating things and not putting themselves in
a position where they are giving the other team chances, then by all means, I don't touch
it. But when they are out there and they are spending 80% of the time in their zone, I
don't like that as well. 
 
Q. You talked earlier about the importance of discipline. So often teams get themselves
in trouble by losing their discipline. Your team doesn't seem to do that very often. What
is it about this team that enables it not to lose its focus an lose its discipline?
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I don't know, I think -- I think that is just the -- possibly the fact
that they are focused and they realize the importance of staying out of the penalty box
and that it means more to turn your cheek and win the hockey game than taking a foolish
penalty and costing your team possibly a win. Right now the wins are much more important
than the bruises. 
 
Q. If you could just, in laymen's terms if you could explain why the Devils are such a
good transition team? It's been apparent all year but it was so apparent last night.
 
 COACH ROBINSON: I think both teams here are pretty good transition teams. A transition
team is a team that I think puts themselves in a position to get the puck back and then
once they get the puck back, they jump on offense. I think positioning has a lot to do
with it being in a good position. If you are not in good position it's pretty tough to
have any kind of a flow going or be able to jump on the other team. So I think just that
we pride ourselves in being in good position. I think when you don't have the puck the
first thing you got to do is get it back, so if everybody is running around, you are not
in good position, you can't feed off of each other; got nobody to pass it to, so we try to
be in good position. That is my philosophy. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT