ATP Tour World Championship
November 29, 1998
Mark Miles
Juan Antonio Samaranch
Brian Tobin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GRAEME AGARS: To continue the proceedings this morning, I would like to introduce to
you the gentlemen seated at the table in front of you. Firstly, His Excellency Juan
Antonio Samaranch, the President of the IOC. We'd like to welcome Brian Tobin, who is the
President of the International Tennis Federation. And of course we welcome back Mark
Miles, the CEO of the ATP Tour. I'd like to hand it across to Mark to begin this part of
the conference. 
 
 MARK MILES: Good afternoon again. Thank you for your attention just prior to our final.
It is a great honor to welcome His Excellency President Samaranch to the ATP Tour World
Championships, and also President Brian Tobin of the International Tennis Federation. They
will shortly have the opportunity to speak for themselves. We did think it was
particularly appropriate that President Samaranch chose the eve of our final, given our
finalists, to join ministers of government from Spain and others who are arriving this
morning, in spite of the fog, to attend the match. I wanted to make just a couple of
comments perhaps to put the week in perspective, then to get to the point of discussions
which the three of us and Ion Tiriac have had earlier today. From my point of view a year
ago here, we announced the changes which we thought were important to make in the future
of the ATP Tour and professional tennis. We thought it was important that we make the game
easier to follow for tennis fans, and there were a couple of key ingredients to do that:
First, to increase the significance, the global impact of our top series of tournaments,
to make sure that they provided the most important possible platform for our players to
play, for our sport to shine, to create stars, in addition to promoting the Mercedes star
around the globe. Second, we thought it was critically important that we create a calendar
year points race which was recognized inside the game as the right way to project the
results of our competition to the public, and that it was important that it be done in a
way that was clear and easy for the public to understand. A couple of the things that we
thought were important at increasing the international recognition of our top series
events included a rebranding, and that is work-in-progress - we are working with Octagon
and ISL in that process; there will be news about that as the new year approaches - and to
change the player commitment, to change the mentality and the system so that the top
players who are ranked high enough to get into the top events are, in fact, automatically
entered. A year ago, we told you we thought that the ideal number was seven. Since then,
we've been delighted that the players have stepped up and we've become convinced that we
could keep all nine of our current Mercedes Super 9 events and preserve their significance
while increasing the quality of that brand. We also said it was vitally important that we
centralize all the commercial rights to that top event, top series of events, so we can
convey and promote the group as a class publicly. I think the announcements from earlier
this week were delivering on that. The first announcement was that the events and the Tour
have come together and formed a new corporation, which is a permanent corporation, for the
pooling of those rights. That is done, fully executed. The second announcement was our
collaboration with ISL and Octagon to step up, to take on the fuller, more comprehensive
approach to marketing this more substantial bundle of rights. In addition, we thought that
it was important - as much as we love the experience we've had in Frankfurt and Hannover -
to move our World Championships from year to year, or at least every two years, to the
major capitals of the world so other regions of the world can share in this great event
and the event can do more to develop the game on a global basis. We also said it was
important to streamline our calendar, so we created a fund with substantial assets to buy
smaller tournaments which are interested in selling back, in the end to make some
streamlining of the calendar. So far we've purchased five tournaments. I believe by the
time we're sitting here next year, it will be at least five more. I think that will allow
us to accomplish the surgical kind of evolution in the Tour calendar which makes sense. I
think the other thing which we talked about, which we've always believed is critically
important, is that the organizations that have a role inside the game must work more
closely together. For too long, occasionally in substance and certainly more frequently,
the perception has been that all of us have not really been committed to a set of common
goals, and that we share the same vision and objectives for the promotion of our sport.
It's not to say that there hasn't been a dialogue for a long, long time, because there
has, and generally a very constructive one. Before I get to my guests today, I'd say one
word about this broader agenda point, the bringing together of the organizations in a
collaborative way. We have ongoing - and I think important substantive - discussions
between the men's game and the women's game. I think it's fair to say that they have been
slower and somewhat more frustrating than I might have hoped. But, on the other hand, I
think there is goodwill, that the dialogue is constructive, that we will be working
together, and over time you will see results of the type that we've talked about in the
past. On the other hand, I couldn't be happier about the collaboration between ourselves
and President Tobin and the ITF, and, in a related way, the Grand Slams themselves. You
have in front of you a statement which talks about the common vision or agenda which we're
working on. We're not here today to announce A, B, C are done, because they're not fully.
We're here to say in the strongest possible way that we're committed to a common agenda,
and that we'll do what we can - really I think what's necessary - to work together to move
the game forward as fast as possible. The agenda includes this race. We really believe
that the changes we've announced for the year 2000 will enhance the popularity of the
sport because it makes it easier for tennis fans to follow, and because it will make the
most important events even more accentuated. It is important to us that you understand
that it's not going to come at the expense of the smaller tournaments on the Tour. They
have their role to play, and that's an integral part of our commitment to our Tour
members, and to the game, as they have their role in developing the sport. But the race
ranking will make it clear that the most important events count most, and have the most
importance in every player's scheduling. I'd suggest to you that through our discussions,
we're looking at the ATP Tour very closely at the inclusion of the Davis Cup and the
Olympic Games in this calendar year points race. If we can accomplish that, it represents
a very important departure from the past. I want to take just a minute to explain why it
isn't done at this moment, and why it hasn't happened previously. Those of you who follow
tennis closely probably already know, from my perspective, it's never been a political
question; it's been a philosophical one. The rankings, from the perspective of the
players, the professional athlete, are aimed at having an objective, fair, consistent way
of determining who has the opportunity to play in professional tennis. It is simply
difficult to conform that philosophy to the granting of opinions to team competitions, or
competitions which may not select the athletes based simply on their ranking. That has
never been a statement on our part of anything but respect for the importance of Davis
Cup, the Olympic Games, but it is simply a recognition of the past philosophy of the
ranking. That's still an issue for us, but it's one that we are in discussions with Mr.
Tobin and President Samaranch about, and I believe is likely to be fruitful. The second
agenda item that's listed in the statement relates to the calendar. There are different
organizations in the sport, not just those reflected here, but also the women. We believe
that we must show a closer collaboration and share common goals with respect to creating
the calendar for men's and women's professional tennis. I think, again, we've achieved a
lot. You'll see in time that the major Tour events - the Grand Slams, and the Davis Cup -
will be provided for as they take their fundamentally important position on the calendars.
The ITF and the ATP Tour are also making important progress because we're arriving at a
shared vision on the importance of us collaborating in two ways, two additional ways: One
is public relations and communications about our sport, not just with respect to this
race, but other important issues. I'll give you two from the ATP Tour's perspective that I
think we would be negligent if we didn't embrace that are immediate communications,
important messages and developments in our sport. One is Pete Sampras' pursuit of the
Grand Slam title. Now, the Grand Slams aren't technically part of the ATP Tour, but
they're fundamentally part of our sport. The ATP Tour will be as proud, I suggest, as the
Grand Slams and the ITF on the day when Pete Sampras breaks that record. We want to work
with the ITF and the Grand Slams in communicating that, the importance of that, to our
sport, to the public. Another is that next year is the hundred year anniversary of the
Davis Cup. We're proud of that as well. That's the kind of thing that we should be working
together to promote. I think Brian may have an idea or two about how there are ATP Tour
developments that the ITF can help us communicate. We also think it's important that we
work hand-in-glove with respect to any future changes in the rules. Getting consensus
among any part of the game on rule changes is not easy. But we're committed to working
together so that in men's professional tennis at least - I'm sure Brian's agenda is
broader - we really do work in concert. We are also in discussions about the possibility
of taking one more organizational step, which I think would be designed to increase even
further the level of cooperation, understanding and coordination in the sport; that is to
look at overlapping representation on our respective boards. I think it would be a very
positive development and one which I hope we can accomplish in the months ahead. Lastly,
but certainly not least, is that the three of us and our organizations share a vision
about the importance of the Olympic Games and the need for tennis to be more important
inside the Olympic Games. I know that the discussions we've had have been productive and
constructive. The Tour will do all that it can to increase the importance of the games,
especially in the minds of our players. We have ideas with respect to the format, which
are just ideas, expressed in the spirit of brainstorming and moving forward. We also have
a common agenda with respect to the Olympic movement's leadership in the anti-doping
program. I'm not going to announce all that; I'll reserve comment until later. But I
simply would say that we believe all of this is fundamentally important to moving our
sport of tennis forward, and we're happy to be a part of it. We're delighted that you two
are here today toward that end. Brian. 
 BRIAN TOBIN: Thank you, Mark, Your Excellency. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think Mark has
covered it pretty well. Thank you for inviting me to be present here today for your
finals. I think the fact that we're here, we're all here, including President Samaranch,
is indicative of the commitment that I think we all want to make in achieving more unity
in our sport of tennis. There are a number of issues still to be solved, but I think we
need to solve them. Mark has touched on a few points that have been difficult for him, the
ATP. We've had some difficult points, but I think we've all come to the conclusion, the
realization, that we need to solve them if we're going to achieve unity and a proper focus
on our sport. We do have a commitment, the ITF has a commitment, to bringing parties
together for that very reason or reasons. I think - particularly at the professional level
- we tend to be involved very heavily at all levels of the game of tennis, but we're now
talking about the top level, the level that people see, focus on, judge the sport by what
happens at this top professional level. I don't want you to think that we've only just
started talking in the last two or three months or two or three weeks, because it isn't
so. Mark and I, I believe, have a pretty good relationship, and we've had long talks now
probably over 18 months or two years, until we had a game of golf recently and the
conversation stopped (laughter). But we have been talking. I think we both want to
rationalize the problems that we both face. Mark has mentioned most of them. I think this
new points race will be ideal in simplifying the public's perspective of our sport. The
calendar has always been a problem to all of us, tournaments on the Tour, the Davis Cup,
even for the Olympics, but I think that's in the process of getting to the best
resolution. We hope to have cross-representation on our boards. That's certainly one of my
objectives. I believe the ITF is ready to do something in that respect, in other words, to
have some ATP Tour representation on our board. I'm pleased, indeed, to see President
Samaranch here because the Olympics is a very high priority for the ITF. It is the forum,
the stage for the best in sport, and I want tennis to be part of that stage. I'm delighted
that Mark sees the ATP Tour helping with us to achieve this. I know we have President
Tiriac here - he's president of everything, but now he's president of the Romanian Olympic
Committee - I know Ion is committed to tennis in the Olympics. That's the good news for
all of us. What are we doing to get together? How are we going to market and present the
sport better? That's all in the throes of discussion. I think we need to present a
coordinated face to the world, that includes the WTA Tour, of which we're already part. I
think we need to include all of our newsworthy items in our joint communiques to the press
and to the public. We want to experiment with rules, if we do want to experiment on, on a
joint basis rather than a competition basis. There are a lot of things that can be
improved. One of my bugbears is passive time in the sport, the amount of time that the
public or television audiences don't see anything. We need to improve and sharpen it up in
my view. I think we need to work together on equipment trends. The ITF is now establishing
a pretty comprehensive laboratory for testing equipment, balls, racquets, surfaces, so on.
I think we can do a lot together. I think we can do a lot with our computer services and
systems that will save us all time and money and present a more coordinated view. I think
if we can negotiate the inclusion or the reinclusion of the Grand Slams in the Tour,
recognition of Davis Cup and Olympics as Mark has said, cross-representation on our
boards, I think that is going to achieve a lot. I've always believed, and I think I've
said to most of you before, I think we have to focus at the professional level on the
major events because they're the events that sell our sport to the public. The ITF has all
the other levels of the game to worry about. We're going to do that. I think the fact that
we're here is a commitment. I hope you'll take it as that. We're here to reinforce what
has been a cloudy issue, I suppose, over the last 12 or 18 months. All sorts of stories
and problems have emerged. I think now we're on the same track. One final point I wanted
to make, perhaps in relation to the Olympics president, we attended, along with many other
international federations and interested people, the working session on Friday in Lausanne
on the question of doping in sport. I want to say, I don't know that there's any other
sport in the world that has the cohesive anti-doping program that tennis has. The ITF, the
ATP Tour, the WTA Tour, all subscribe to and comply with one anti-doping policy and
procedure, professional, amateur, whatever you like. I think that's unique. We intend to
keep it that way. In some areas of the press, I understand yesterday tennis was singled
out as a sport which was not ready to comply. Let me just say to you that tennis does not
support cheating in sport, and particularly in tennis. The only reason on Friday that I
deferred agreeing to whatever the paper was that was presented to us that morning was
because we have partners, the ATP Tour, WTA Tour, and of course we need to talk to them
about the new formats, procedures for anti-doping penalties, all that sort of thing. The
big conference is in February, and I'm pretty confident that we're all going to be there,
all of us and the WTA Tour, in support of the anti-doping unified problem that the IOC
presents. It's not as if we don't support it. Let me make it clear. We have partners who
are part of the a program. We want to confer with them before we make any public statement
on it. Thank you. 
 MARK MILES: President Samaranch. 
 PRESIDENT SAMARANCH: First of all, I would like to say that I was really pleased to
accept invitation of Mr. Miles to attend this very important meeting this morning with
ATP, ITF. I think the conclusions, in general, they are very good for the three parts, but
mainly for the game, for tennis. Also, Mr. Miles, thank you for your invitation to attend
the final of the ATP Tour World Championships this afternoon. I am sure, a hundred percent
sure, that a player from my country will be the winner (laughter). Speaking in tennis,
tennis was in the Olympic Games at the beginning, since 1924. After 1924, disappear the
game. We push forward, very hard with International Tennis Federation, to have tennis
back. That was a reality in 1988. Since then, we are facing some problems. I think the
participation of women is okay, the best women tennis players are always in the Olympic
Games. But sometimes we have problems with some players, men players, like you have, Mr.
President, sometimes also with the Davis Cup I think. I think we have to reinforce the
Olympic tennis tournament, and for this reason I am here. I am very pleased to listen that
you are studying the possibility to give points, ATP points, for the Olympic tennis
tournament, and also to increase the interest for the players to take part in this very
major event that is held every four years. Also I would like to say that you know Mr.
Tiriac is very important in tennis. Now he's becoming also very important in the Olympic
movement. He's the President of the Romanian Olympic Committee, and maybe that is only the
beginning. He can be most important also in the Olympic movement in the near future.
That's all. I am very pleased and very happy of this relations with ATP and ITF. We think
that working together is a benefit of the three parts, and I think mostly working together
is the benefit of the tennis players and also of the tennis sport. Thank you. 
 
Q. Two questions, if I might. One, when do you expect to be in a position to announce
something concrete on the incorporation of the Olympics and the Davis Cup into the
rankings race? Secondly, are you any way down the road to combining the two season-ending
championships, this one and the Grand Slam Cup?
 
 MARK MILES: I think it's fair to say that from our perspective, there should be no
doubt about the importance to the ATP Tour, to the players on the Tour, of both the Davis
Cup and the Olympic Games. The more important, the better. They're historically
significant to our sport, they're part of the world of sport, and we have to do more in
that regard. That's why we're having this discussion. We're trying to overcome the kind of
philosophical issue that is a genuine one, an historic one, and I think that it's easy as
done in a framework of kind of a reconciliation between our organizations of all of the
game. My expectation is that those items that we've talked about today will progress
together. I'm not going to give you a timeline. I know that our common objective would be
to be able to include the Olympic Games in the race for the year 2000, and the race
itself, as we've said, we'll redefine it doesn't take effect until the beginning of the
year 2000. We have time for deliberate discussions. I think we'll take whatever time is
necessary over the course of the next year to hopefully achieve this agenda. 
 BRIAN TOBIN: With respect to your second question, the merger I think of the events.
Obviously, that's one of the elements that we need to reexamine, the merger of the events.
There's a lot involved, both events are very successful, both have private promoters - if
I can call them that - involved, a lot of commercial contracts are in place. All these
need to be examined, and they will be relooked at to see whether at some stage we can do
something about that. I mean, I think you also have to think of the players because we now
have the women included in the Grand Slam Cup. We have a commitment to the women. Probably
if you combined women, men, ATP Championships and the Grand Slam Cup, I think there's
certainly going to be less money available for the players. One event can't support what
we have now. There are some pros and cons, but I think it's something, along with all the
other elements, that we have to relook at. 
 
Q. I have two questions. First to Mark: Will the Olympics count as part of the player
commitment in the year 2000? Would it be part of the overall commitment? Would it be part
of the Super 9 commitment? Second question to Brian: Could we expect to possibly see ATP
Tour branding at the Grand Slams? Obviously, Wimbledon doesn't have branding on court, but
at the French, Australian and US Open, as there is branding with the WTA Tour?
 
 BRIAN TOBIN: I think the second question is obvious. Yes, if the Grand Slams become
part of the Tour again, and the Davis Cup is - I don't want to say part of the ATP Tour or
vice versa - but the Davis Cup works with the ATP Tour, yes, I think that would have to be
part of the cooperative bases. Yes, there would be. 
 MARK MILES: What was the first part? 
 
Q. About the player commitment with the Olympics.
 
 MARK MILES: The Tour's player commitment, as I think you know, is really part of a
bonus program, which is funded by our tournaments and our marketing activities. While the
answer is effectively no, it's not literally part of that program, I think that you can
accomplish much the same thing if we can incorporate these events in the ranking, in the
race. 
 
Q. One of the reasons of your - how can I say - reconciliation, ITF, ATP, is to have
the game to be more clear to the people, to the crowd. One first step that could be made,
I think, is that when you read for instance the sign ATP World Championships, tonight you
will think that either Moya or Corretja, one of the two is the world champion. Then in
December - or I don't know when - the ITF will name his World Champion. There will be two
different World Champion. That is already something that shouldn't happen anymore. What do
you think about it?
 
 MARK MILES: I agree with you. 
 
Q. Is like boxing. 
 
 MARK MILES: I completely agree with you. Part of our, if you will, branding work,
ongoing work with Octagon and ISL, is to come up with an approach to the professional game
from top to bottom that's much more transparent, makes sense to not only the informed
Italian journalists, but the public. 
 
Q. Talking about the Olympics, I've been in Los Angeles, '84, where tennis was not an
official sport, in Barcelona, Atlanta. I had a feeling that tennis was a minor event,
which affects my tennis. Apart from the points and the money, a guy who starts running,
his dream is to win in the Olympics; a guy who start to play tennis, his dream is to win
either Wimbledon or the US Open. I don't think you can ever change that. I doubt if it is
in the best interest of tennis, being at the Olympics as a minor sport, even I understand
for many national tennis association is important because they are helped because tennis
is an Olympic sport. When I was there, I had the feeling tennis was a minor event in the
Olympics.
 
 MARK MILES: I think that's why we're here. Your question in a way goes not just to
history but to the psychology of the player. We want to change that. We're not satisfied
with that. I don't think the whole answer is points. First of all, I don't think it's
realistic to think from one day to the next history changes; it takes time to establish a
great tradition. The Grand Slams have taken a great deal of time to be the pinnacle of our
game. But it has to be the goal. Part of our dialogue is brainstorming about the
possibility for after the year 2000 is to find ways to influence the format of the
competition there to make it as important as possible, as distinctive as possible for the
tennis player. 
 BRIAN TOBIN: I agree with that. I think you'll find that the ITF is going to launch
quite a heavy promotional program in the next 18 months leading up to the Olympics in
Sydney - President Samaranch may feel the brunt of some of this, too - in trying to create
a higher level of interest in tennis in the Olympics, both in the player, spectator, the
IOC, many of the other Olympic sports, to recognize tennis, because we believe it is
probably the most international sport in the world, and it contains men and women. So why
shouldn't it be part of the Olympics? I think it is an attitude thing, a philosophical
thing. I think we've got to change the minds of people. We'll be asking you guys to help
us do that a little bit over the next 12 months. I understand what you say, and that's one
of the things we're fighting to improve. I don't think that points are going to make all
the difference in the world either. I mean, whoever's No. 1 in the world in the year 2000
or 2004 is probably not going to play in the Olympics just for the points. But I think I
understand Mark's problem with getting to the Olympics purely on performance perhaps,
rather than being selected by your country. But I think for the players who do play in the
Olympics - and who will now hopefully receive some points - it will be better than them
playing for nothing, watching some of those guys who don't play, earning points at the
same time somewhere else. I think it's more important to the people who are not at the top
of the tree, rather than getting one or two players who want to go just to get points. I
think it's, again, a philosophical thing, that all the other players see one or two guys
not playing Olympics, but earning points. The same applies for Davis Cup. I think it's
important for all those guys that do play in those events, the Davis Cup and the Olympics,
to know that they are getting some recognition for representing their country. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT