SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC MEDIA DAY
July 11, 2000
Tim Finchem
Jim Furyk
Mike McCullough
Rocco Mediate
Joe Rotellini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE ROTELLINI: Hopefully everybody enjoyed their round of golf this morning. The course
is in great shape. Hopefully played a little tough for you so you can see what the TOUR
players will be experiencing in September. I'd like to start out by acknowledging some
people that are here today, let you know who they and what they are doing for us. The
first group is Raymond Kondziela, who is the general manager here at Waynesborough Country
Club, his staff, golf professional Al Sutton, superintendent Mitch Trent. It's been a real
pleasure working with them, and they are working hard along with us to make it a great
event. Other people I'd like to acknowledge, Tony Cook, the past president of the club and
currently our volunteer chairman and most recently on the board here as well, also Diana
Drake, and also Dick Leaman, Phil Cottone, Steve Smith and your security chair, Jeff
Gordon. So I really appreciate all of the work they are doing, which takes me to the point
I really want to emphasize with you today. In order for this event to be successful, we
really rely on a large number of volunteers, and our volunteer staff our vice chairman are
working very hard in this matter, but we still have a need for several hundred more
volunteers, particularly marshals and transportation. So if you can help us and spread the
word, let people know, I'd really, really appreciate it, because that is very important,
the volunteers, to have a successful event. I'd also like to acknowledge our tournament
staff, people who work in our office, Chad Burgess, Jackie Allison and Chuck Barton. In
the short time that we've been here, less than a year, things have been going very, very
well. I've really appreciated the relationships that we've developed, particularly with
Waynesborough Country Club; again, Ray and his staff have been easy to work with and the
members are stepping up and doing some great things for the tournament. Also, SEI, our
sponsor. It's unique and very positive for us to have our sponsor basically right in our
backyard at Oaks, Pennsylvania, and their staff has been again very helpful, Mr. West,
Mark Samuels, Karen Taylor-Lucia. Again, very good group to work with and they have been
very, very supportive. We are progressing very smoothly. Things are going well. We've been
selling hospitality, corporate opportunities. There are still some available spots there.
So, if you know some companies that have some interest, corporations, we can sell them
these opportunities. Ticket sales have been going along for several months, going very
well. And I really want to emphasize a big point to you that we anticipate a sellout here
in September. The golf purse will be great, the weather will be great. I'm sure we'll have
a real strong field. So if you can really let the public know that tickets are going to be
limited, and once we sell out, we're sold out -- we just won't have any more to provide.
And we really want to create a sense of urgency here, because it really is. So if you can
help us with that and educate the people, I'd really, really appreciate that. Lastly, and
very importantly is at this time today, we want to announce some of our charities that
we're going to be donating charitable dollars to, and there will be some others that we
will announce later on as we get closer to the tournament. So I do want to take the time
to recognize these groups that we've chosen at this time. First is Paoli Memorial
Hospital; NAMI, National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, through their national office and
local Chester County office, as well; Abrhamson Family Cancer Institute of Pennsylvania;
and the First Tee of Delaware and Chester County. Now, I'd like to thank everybody for
coming out today. Hopefully, you enjoyed yourself and really saw hat this is a great area
in the community of Philadelphia. Surrounding areas have been supportive and have welcomed
us with open arms and we're excited about being here, excited about September. So, thank
you for coming.

SAMUEL McCULLOUGH: Ready for a long political speech, talking about vice presidential
candidates and all that kind of stuff? I'm not it. I can tell you about having played your
golf course today. You find some places to put those pins! Those big guys are going to
have a hard time on those greens come September. It was a treat to play it, and I really
appreciated playing with Neal Hartman of ComCast. Is Neal still here? That big, long
knock, long drive guy, Greg Russell from First Tee. I learned a lot about First Tee today,
and I hope that we'll be able to do some work together with that organization. And Mike of
WIP Radio couldn't take anymore. He walked off the course after nine holes. I can't wait
to listen to him again. But I'll tell you, it's great to welcome the PGA back to
Pennsylvania, on behalf of the governor, we are really delighted. Tony and I were arguing
whether it was 19 years ago or 20 years ago the last PGA TOUR event was held in
Pennsylvania; this is a great spot for competitive golf. We do have lots of tournaments
here. We just completed the 2000 U.S. Senior Open at Saucon Valley; we had the BUY.COM
TOUR that's been around Lehigh Valley, and at Hershey, just completed a tournament at
Hershey. And we had the First Union Betsy King Classic, which is now, I guess, in it's
four fourth or fifth year, which I had fun kind of putting together and starting, and
that's now doing well. But I want to tell you the business of golf is very important to
Pennsylvania. It's a significant role and plays a significant role in the tourism industry
in Pennsylvania. Tourism is not just hotels and rental cars and all that kind of stuff. It
has a far-reaching effect on the economy of Pennsylvania. It's a $27 billion industry in
Pennsylvania with about 465,000 Pennsylvanians working on tourism in the state, and golf
plays a very major role in that. We've got some 500 public golf courses in this state, I
think that's probably correct -- I haven't counted the number of private courses, but as
you know, with Waynesborough and lots of the courses are that are private courses that are
located here in the southeastern part of the state, names that you all know and certainly
the same in the western part of the state, we've got a lot of great golf in this
commonwealth and a lot of great places to play. And I think First Tee is going to play an
important role for golf in Pennsylvania, and really looking forward to seeing what Greg
can do with that, having just started probably six or seven months ago. So anyway, golf
plays a very important part of the tourism activity of Pennsylvania, and I would invite
all of the golf fans to who come here to this state to look at what else happens around
Pennsylvania, the historic areas of Philadelphia and Gettysburg. You can ride up to Mt.
Washington on the incline and look at skyline of Pittsburgh, or you can have fun shopping
in Pennsylvania's outlets and malls tax-free. Those of you who don't live in Pennsylvania,
we don't have a sales tax on golf shirts, golf shoes, any clothing. So come shop tax-free
in Pennsylvania. The SEI Pennsylvania Classic is good for golf, good for Pennsylvania and
I can't wait for September to get this thing started. Thank you very much.

CARMEN ROMEO: Thank you so much. Did you say you were going to eliminate the sales tax
in Pennsylvania? Oh, okay. Great. Well, I want to thank you all for coming here today. I
want to thank Commissioner Tim Finchem and his staff for selecting Pennsylvania for a TOUR
stop, and specifically this country club, which is my country club, and for all the work
that Samuel McCullough has done to bring it back to Pennsylvania. I'm here pinch-hitting
for Al West, and I can't really replace him so much as I'd like to, but he is out on his
back literally in his bedroom. He was in the middle of a meeting this morning at SEI and
had to excuse himself and go home. So he would be here today if he could, but he's not; so
I'm sort of his replacement. And this tournament literally is in his backyard. And when we
were given the opportunity to participate in this wonderful event that took us literally a
second or two to say, yeah, we're in this game, we think it's a great event for
Philadelphia, for Philadelphia golf, which has a lot of tradition in here, after 20 years,
it's been too long for SEI, for Philadelphia to be sort of involved in the PGA TOUR. So
we're happy to be part of it. For those of you who don't know much about SEI Investments,
we're located in Oaks, Pennsylvania, which is just up the road here on 422. We're an
investment services company with over 1,600 employees and over 4,000 clients that service
primarily high net worth individuals and institutional funds. It's great for them, the
notoriety that we give to our employees for this kind of an event; the notoriety and the
feeling of partnership that we give with your clients as part of this event; it's really
one of the reasons why we did this event, our way to pay back something to the community
of Philadelphia area. So with that, we couldn't be more happy to be part of this event. So
I hope you all had a great time playing golf here today. This course does play tough, and
it can get real, real tough, right, Al? And it will get tougher in September, I'm sure it
will. So with that, again, I say thank you, welcome to Waynesborough Country Club. It will
be a great event in September. Thank you.

JIM FURYK: I consider Pennsylvania my home and that's where I grew up and when I
consider going back home, that's where I'm talking about. So, you know I'm looking forward
to it. I'm going to have a lot of family a lot of friends there, and it will be an
exciting week. It will be a hectic week, also, but I'm looking forward to it. Very excited
about it. They have not since a major event has come to the area so I'm looking forward to
it and I think that there's been a lot of support in the area, and when I'm home, I
definitely hear a lot of talk about the event.
ROCCO MEDIATE: I've been on TOUR for 16 years now, and finally after all this time, we
have a tournament coming to Pennsylvania, the SEI Pennsylvania Classic in September.
September in Pennsylvania is this the best time to have a golf tournament. All of the
players will be asking how it is. I said: "Come on, they are going to make it
perfect." You just can't say enough about it. I can't wait to be there. I know it
will be a tremendous turnout. We're all looking forward to it.

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Thank you very much, Ana, and I thank all of you for coming out
and being with us today. It would seem to me appropriate that the commissioner ought to be
able to play a little bit. I always come to these things and everybody is just playing or
they are going to play, but I hope you enjoyed being out there on the golf course. We
understand it's tremendous, and the players are looking forward to it. We are delighted to
bring the PGA TOUR back to Pennsylvania after, based on Jim's comment, either 19, 20 or 21
years, but I must tell you, my staff and my briefing documents said 20 years and they are
always right; so it's got to be 20 years since the IVB in 1980, but we'll check that. Let
me make a few comments about the PGA TOUR and this tournament, but I first of all would
like to deeply thank the governor and Samuel McCullough for their efforts to work with us
to structure the concept of the Pennsylvania Classic, to create a PGA TOUR week that will
help us reach golf fans in two major sporting markets in this country, Philadelphia and
Pittsburgh. We think it's a great concept, and it would not have happened without the
governor's support and assistance, and Sam has done all the work for the governor. So Sam,
we appreciate that. Carmen, the people at SEI have just been tremendous in their
enthusiasm about what can happen here in Philadelphia with this event. And Carmen was the
first guy, and he took the idea and worked with us to develop the concept with SEI. And
obviously, in this business, you cannot reach the fans without sponsorship and volunteers,
and SEI stepping forward to utilize this tournament to build their brand was a major key
step in us being able to be here today and we thank, not only Carmen, but everybody, Al,
at SEI as well. The original idea of trying to get Pennsylvania back on the PGA TOUR
schedule belongs to Arnold. Arnold, when I first became commissioner, started a tap dance
on me about, "it's time to get the PGA TOUR back to Philadelphia and perhaps
Pittsburgh, it's been too long." And we're just really pleased that we can rotate
this event between two great golf courses here at Waynesborough and over at Laurel Valley
in Pittsburgh, and we look forward to Arnold's being involved in the event, and as sort of
an unofficial host representing Pennsylvania. I think you saw the enthusiasm from Rocco
and Jim Furyk, and I think that enthusiasm about coming back to this state and playing is
reflected by the attitudes of all of our players. We play 48 TOUR, Official Money events
in the course of the year. Usually, when you play at a private club, some of the members
want to give up their club for what happens to be a key week in the season. A lot of
members don't. But the enthusiasm amongst membership here at Waynesborough has been
really, really something to see when you have, I guess, over 200 members who have said,
"I will volunteer to work in the tournament." That is really great to see that
kind of support, and not only the volunteer assistance from the members, but the fact that
the club was willing to work with our staff to rebuild 12 tees, to renovate and make the
practice area something that will work for a PGA TOUR event is also a testament to their
enthusiasm, and we really appreciate what's going to happen here because of that this
fall. I might finally say with respect to the tournament on the charity side, you know PGA
TOUR events, going back over the decades, have now generated over $525 million. Leaving
dollars behind in the community where we play has become part of the culture of this
sport. And we'd like to think it's one of the unique things about the sport that stands
out amongst fans and separates us perhaps a little bit from other sports. We'd like to say
that if you're in the other sports, and you want to raise money for charity, you hold a
golf tournament, which has happened. But I'm pleased that we announced some of the
charitable recipients today. I'm particularly pleased that First Tee is among those, and
Greg Russell who is running the First Tee Program here in this area is with us. Where is
Greg? Just want to point out Greg Russell, and he's here today, if any of you all have
questions about the First Tee and what the First Tee can do here locally. The First Tee is
two and a half years old. It will reach it's first goal of getting the 100 facilities in
production in the first three years. And this fall, at the Golf 20-20 Conference at the
World Golf Village down in Florida, we'll be announcing the long-term plan for First Tee,
which we think can have an impact on the growth of the game and bringing golf to kids who
historically have not had access to it as well, in the decades to come. A few comments
about the PGA TOUR generally and golf in general. I don't have to tell you all who cover
sports that golf is doing very, very well. I just saw yet another survey today, the
Shelton Survey that ESPN runs that indicated golf, again, for the third consecutive year
is the fastest growing sport in terms of the creation of fans. When you have that kind of
growth in the growing demographic we have of reaching younger people, and increasingly,
women, some of which is related to the overall hype that the game is getting; a lot has to
do with the attraction of our great young players, Tiger, Justin and Ernie and many, many
others. We are what generally is referred to, I guess, in your business as "on a
roll," and it looks like it's going to continue. The two things that we have to
concentrate on in the short term are, we have to figure out how to best utilize the
Internet in conjunction with television to bring our sport to our fans, and in the long
term, we have to figure out how we can get the game from a participation standpoint to
enough people where it can be a mass sport from a participation standpoint, and that's why
programs like First Tee are so important, even though The First Tee's primary mission is
to bring the ability to play to kids because it's important in their lives. We had a great
year this year, in addition to the last three; so many great performances. We've had six
players who have won more than once. We now have over 20 players who have earned over $1
million. We have more and more international players coming to play here on a regular
basis, virtually every great player around the World comes and becomes a member, or, in
the case of a Colin Montgomerie, may not be a member, but plays an awful lot here; so that
today we have 42 of the Top 50 players of the world as members of our TOUR, and that
strengthens us further because the audiences in Japan and Australia and South Africa, and
now South America, want to watch PGA TOUR golf in the United States, which strengthens our
international television distribution and strengthens everything else we do. So we look
forward to the rest of the year with more individual performances, of course long-term,
watching whether Tiger can challenge Jack Nicklaus's record, as we look forward this fall
to The Presidents Cup, which we know is going to be extremely interesting, given the
International Team's victory a couple years ago. And we couldn't be more delighted with
the progress that we're making. Back to the SEI Pennsylvania Classic for a second. I would
just summarize all this by saying that there are so many reasons why this can and should
and in our judgment will be a first-rate event on the PGA TOUR. And let me just tick them
off for you: We have a great sponsor; we have two great golf courses to play; we are going
to play in two of the best sports markets in America, in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh; we
are playing in a time of the year where the golf courses will be superb, No. 1; and also
at a time of the year where it's very important to a lot of different categories of our
players to play, and play well. Because when you get into September, players at the very
top are focused on Player of the Year honors, they are focused on the Vardon Trophy, Byron
Nelson Award; they are focused on Arnold Palmer Award, winning for Money Leader, and all
of those things. They are also focused on the Top-30, because it provides eligibility to
the TOUR Championship and other tournaments next year, the Top-70, which are eligible for
the Invitational tournaments and of course in that 110, 120 range, trying to make that 125
and trying to maintain their position at 125. So when you add all of those things up, this
can and should be in our judgment a first-rate tournament going forward. And typically, it
takes about five years for a tournament on our TOUR to mature. When I say
"mature," become financially stable; start to generate significant revenues for
charity; attract more and more of a field as the players learn from each other more about
the quality of the golf course. The two main reasons player play in a tournament in their
schedule is quality of the golf course and the prize money, and in both of those things,
we're going to have a very, very solid start, and I think we can beat that five-year
ramp-up period to get to the point to where we are well established here in Pennsylvania.
Thanks very much for being here today. Thanks for your support. I'll be happy to answer
any questions after I finish, and then I'll be around for a few minutes afterwards.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Well, the Olympics is an atypical situation for September, simply
because it's in Australia. Usually, the Olympics are in late August. So we can't let an
off-type event like the Olympics start to drive our scheduling. As far as the general
position of being in the fall, given football and other sports, historically, I'd say
we've come reasonably far in terms of building our audience in the fall. We are no longer
as a sport from a television audience standpoint or ticket sales, corporate hospitality or
any of that, afraid of any particular time of the year, whether it's NCAA basketball, the
NBA, which we beat in audience share a number of times this year, Major League baseball in
the summer or now, even the NFL in the fall. Although, frankly, from a television
standpoint it is a little bit more difficult when you've got college football on Saturday,
NFL on Sunday. On the other hand, we have seen increasing signs that our fall schedule is
getting stronger, and if you recall three or four years ago, we focused a lot of attention
or our West Coast Swing and we have really strengthened the West Coast Swing the first
eight weeks of year. We now intend to do the same thing with the fall. We think if you
look at our schedule after 2000 in terms of where we're going to play, the kind of
sponsorship levels that we have, the purse levels, we're going to have players playing
more in the fall; we're going to have good fields, and we're going to see increasing
impact in terms of audience penetration. So we're real bullish on playing in the fall.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: I don't think it's been done with a regular TOUR event, but we've
been doing it for the last dozen years with THE TOUR Championship, and in the last playing
three or four years, we've basically played Atlanta and Huston. And I can tell you, you
are echoing the sentiments that our staff echoed when we got into that with THE TOUR
Championship. You know, leave for a year and it's going to be harder to do it coming back;
and we've found out the opposite: The volunteers are fresh, everything can be done on a
24-month cycle, the public is looking forward to it, and it's worked quite well. So we
think that's what will happen here.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: We don't have that many first-year events to really have a good
feel. We do know that the golf course is an important piece of a player's scheduling, and
some players will wait, hear what their comrades have to say or their peers have to say
about what they thought of the golf course. Others will jump in there and play it the
first year. You will see some players floating in here to try the play the golf course;
find Carmen and another member to take them out and try it. But I think that given the
reputation of the course, and given the commentary we'll have from Arnold and other
players, we'll have a good field. What we are facing in the sport and we've been focused
on the last four years is really to compete for our players against other interests. If a
player is going to play 20 times, that doesn't mean he's only playing golf 20 weeks. He's
doing something on a golf course, improving his living. So to compete effectively, you
have to raise prize money to the point where you can compete. We've done a good job of
doing that and we have to get good, solid golf tournaments with good exposure and good
venues to play on. And different events are going to meet this criteria. So I think we are
going to have a very solid field here and in the years to come, and I think we're going to
be off to a good start in September.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: You know, I can speculate. I think that, you know, the PGA TOUR
left Pennsylvania, and that was about the time of the beginning of The SENIOR TOUR, and by
the mid-80s or late 80s, say, six or seven years after IVB, we had a proliferation of
SENIOR TOUR events, both in Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh. That doesn't mean you can't do
both in an awful lot of markets. That was probably a factor. Just watching, we went for
about ten years where we really didn't move out of any tournaments. And now in the last
five, we have tried to prioritize, trying to reach the major markets in this country and
we've left some smaller markets. So we really are excited about being in
Philadelphia/Pittsburgh, because obviously, what we're dealing with in terms of the number
of fans we are going to be reaching.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Well, we don't like to get in the position of favoring one week
over another, because all of our tournaments are partners and all of our sponsors are our
sponsors. We do two things: One is we make information available to players which will
impact their schedules, and we do that very aggressively. And two, if a particular week is
showing signs of having a weak field, then we will go to players and encourage them to
play. Now in this particular case, making them aware of what is happening here is going to
have a big impact in terms of purse, golf course, local support, potential future in
Pennsylvania and all of those things. Well, they do for membership purposes and retirement
plan purposes, they have to play 15 events. Obviously, most of them play -- the average
number for top 50 is now up to 26. The Top 10, 30, 50, 100 players in any one of those
categories, we have increased the number of their tournaments each of the last four years
in a row and we anticipate that to continue to increase. We also have more players who are
moving their schedules around a little bit because of some of the details of some of our
retirement plans, in which you have to vest, so there is an incentive to play more
tournaments. Clearly, Tiger, does a bit of that; each year he's playing one or two
different tournaments. Davis Love is focused on playing at least every tournament at least
once in four years. That's something -- a lot of the top players have adopted that
philosophy. That's a good philosophy to have. Payne Stewart was very much committed to
playing in every tournament on the TOUR. That kind of philosophy can hurt you
competitively, because some golf courses just don't set up for a certain player's game,
but we see more and more players doing that. And so I think the combination of all those
things have resulted in strengthening the field, and like I say, we're going to be
announcing soon some additional enhancements for the entire Fall Swing, which will
additionally benefit drawing more players to focus on playing in the fall.

Q. (Inaudible.)

COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: That's an option we have. Right now, we are focused on
Waynesborough and Laurel Valley. Our intention is to continue to play there for a while.
But it's the Pennsylvania Classic; so we want to maintain our flexibility. If it makes
sense to play someplace else one year to make sure the tournament is accessible to
everybody, we'll consider that. But right now, in our immediate future, we'll focus on
Waynesborough.
JOE ROTELLINI: I would like to thank everybody for coming. A really special thank you
to the Commissioner and Secretary for taking time out of their busy schedules to be with
us today, and also to Ana for her hard work. Thank you all for coming, and again, I hope
you had a great time. Looking forwards to seeing you in September.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT