US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Second set a little interesting? 
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. We had a tough set. You know, I had a few chances there, a few
games that I was up, just made a couple errors that I probably shouldn't have. And she was
right there. You know, first set, I thought was a pretty close set, even though I won it
6-2. The points were pretty close. You know, just kind of slipped away a little bit. 
 
Q. How confident do you feel that you can make your Grand Slam breakthrough here?
You've got Monica in your bracket. How do you feel you're playing right now? Do you feel
you're ready to challenge Monica and Martina?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. I think that's definitely the goal for me here. I'm not really
looking at trying to make a Grand Slam breakthrough or reach a certain round at this Grand
Slam in particular. I'm taking it match by match. You know, I'd love to have a chance to
play Monica, either one of them. So I'm just looking forward to that and really trying to
work myself up to that. 
 
Q. It was mentioned this morning that you had approached the ATP about participating in
the event, the Nelson Mandela Tribute in December.
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yes. 
 
Q. Was this something where you heard the guys are doing this and, "I want
in"?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: No. Gary Muller came to me. I was aware of it. I knew it was just men.
Iva Majoli was going to go on safari in South Africa. It just so happened that they
decided while she's there, I guess we can play a match. I know I'm there that time of
year, so. 
 
Q. This is quite a large group of pros from many different countries, integrated,
black/white. What kind of significance do you think that event is going to have in South
Africa?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: I think it will have a huge significance. I'm really, really excited to
be part of it. I was excited about it before I knew that there's a chance that we might
play. I think it will be great. We haven't had really big tournaments down there in the
past. Just the fact that it's a huge tribute to Nelson Mandela, I think is just going to
make it so much more exciting, too. 
 
Q. I just had one last question. That is, if you had your preference, if the facilities
and the coaching and so forth were in place, would you prefer to be back home training
rather than here?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Well, it's more distance, I'd say, than anything else. It's just a lot
easier for me to travel out of the States, because it's so far away. I think it's hard to
make that trip down there. Also just with the seasons conflicting with the way we play
most of the time, I think it's a little bit tough. Even though we don't have very severe
winters, a few months out of the year, while it's summer over here, I'd much rather be
playing here, be in the States while it's hot than train back at home, if it's conflicting
seasons. 
 
Q. Do you hope to see, though, the further development of facilities?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. That would be great. Still, I think it's going to be a while
before we really see any type of circuit down there. I think what would be ideal is if we
had some type of circuit with Australia, that would be ideal in the future. I think that
would be great. If we had something like that, I think it would really, really make tennis
boost a bit. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT