WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2000
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Yes, it was a tough match. Craig Parry started playing very well,
made a few putts and I was 2-down early in the match. And he made a couple of mistakes on
8 and 11. We were all square again, and all of a sudden I lost 12 and 13 in a row. And I
was just struggling, to be honest, because he hit a wonderful tee shot on 14. And I
managed to make a birdie. And I think that turned the momentum around, and came back from
2 down after 13. So I'm really pleased, even though I didn't play very well the last three
holes, 16, 17, and 18.  
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: On 16 and 17 I missed the driver, and I put myself in a lot of
trouble. I saved a great par on 16 to win the hole. But mainly that. And I overclubbed on
18; hit it over the green in the back bunker. And I had to save par to win the match. 
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: It has been quite an easy start, to be honest. I just played a
couple of tournaments in Australia, that's it. And I'm trying to take it easy at the start
of the season, because of the traveling, going to Australia, coming here. So it wears you
down a little bit. And I'm trying to take a couple of weeks off in between those trips. 
 
Q. How tough are the conditions out there?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: They were tough. Maybe not on the front because the wind wasn't
blowing that much, but especially on the back 9 the wind has started to pick up. It was
quite difficult to really adjust the clubs. Apart from that, obviously, the golf course is
playing quite wet and long, but at the same time you can really attack the flags. So it
evens out a little bit. 
 
Q. Is it a tougher driving course than last year?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: The rough this year is quite severe, to be honest, yes. The rough
I think is higher, I think, than it was last year. Also the fact that it's wet at the same
time. So driving the ball well I think is very important to be able to score well here,
because the golf course is really playing long. As soon as you miss the tee shot,
virtually you're not going to have any chance of missing the green. So you will have to
up-and-down from 40, 50 yards or whatever. 
 
Q. How many fairways did you hit today?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I hit quite a few until the very end. On the front 9 I think I
only missed one. And on the back 9 I missed -- well, 16 and 17. 
 
Q. What have you been working on during the winter?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, I went to see John Jacobs the week before going to
Australia. And he thought that the plane was correct; it was just a matter of making the
putter stronger. It's still uncomfortable after all the years I've been using the weaker
grip, so it's going to take me a little while to really feel comfortable with it. But
hopefully we're working in the right direction now.  
 
Q. Does that alter the plane of the swing?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, no. It's just the grip.  
 
Q. What does John say that will cause to happen?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, if you have a weak grip, obviously the club face is going to
have a tendency to get open. So my missed shots last year were, most of them were right.
If you make the grip stronger, the club should be more square. 
 
Q. Did you work hard at that?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: It was just the week before Australia. 
 
Q. Are you finding it's working?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: In a sense, yes. Today, for instance, I missed only like three
fairways today. The only question mark that is in my mind it was just the last few holes,
16 and 17, under pressure I didn't manage to deliver, to get a couple of good drives,
which would have been very important. But hopefully it will come along. 
 
Q. Do you use the same grip for all the shots?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, yes. I'm trying to -- that's something I have to play with,
you know. I want to have the same grip, but obviously it's much easier to draw the ball
with the irons. And it's just the opposite feeling, with the driver I feel like I need to
make it really more stronger -- stronger, to keep it straight. And if I grip the club like
that with the irons, I'm fighting not to miss the ball out. So it will take a little time.
 
 
Q. How do you feel about this tournament in general? Is it something you look forward
to, or is it one you feel like you have to come play?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, I don't feel you have to, like I have to come to play, no. I
like the tournament. I think match play -- the only thing about match play is that you can
come here, and after 18 holes you're back home. But I think the format is an interesting
one. I like playing match play. It's not that you have to play so much against the golf
course, but against your opponent. So it makes you play different -- a different game.
Your approach to some of the shots is completely different than if you were playing a
regular tournament. And I like that. 
 
Q. Will you play in this next year?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, I said in Australia that is going to be most probably a no.
It's very early in the year. I've always said that December and virtually January I don't
want to play golf at all. The season is long enough, and I need -- I feel like I need the
rest. So I'm not going to miss those days with my family. So most probably I won't be
going there. 
 
Q. Do you normally take off January and February?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: December and January.  
 
Q. How much time did you spend with John, and was it a couple of different times?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No. The week before going to Australia, I spent two days. And that
was the only time I saw him during the whole winter. So I will see him later during the
season, obviously. But it was only those two days. 
 
Q. You'll see him before Augusta again, do you think?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Not if I feel that -- not if I feel some improvement from this
moment up to the week before TPC. 
 
Q. Did he see the grip thing right away, is that something he spotted?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, obviously he's pretty clear, if you compare my grip to the
rest of the players that play golf, my grip is a very weak one. But because my iron play
was so good he didn't want to mess with it, but it was always something that he had in the
back of his mind.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT