WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1999
Chris Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 CHRIS PERRY: It was a tough day I think for everybody, just watching the leader board.
Nobody did much of anything. I don't know what the low score was, but it wasn't as
difficult a wind as Thursday, but it swirled a lot more, which made club selection and the
shots very difficult to judge out there. I knew if I could somehow just get it in the
fairway and get it around the greens and make some pars that I was still going to have a
shot for tomorrow. I really didn't play that well today. I made a couple of good par
putts, had some birdie opportunities that I let slide by and got a good break on 17,
hitting a pretty good shot from the -- out of the rough on the right. It was a really
tricky shot and I actually got lucky and ended up making birdie there to salvage one or
two shots there, because it's difficult when it's into the wind. But overall I'm pleased
to be leading, tied with Miguel. I know he'll have a lot of crowd support tomorrow, being
that he's a hometowner in Spain. There's a lot of great players on the leaderboard. If I
played like I did today I know I won't win. I have to go on the range after this and get a
little of my swing flaws out. I really have to play a quality round tomorrow. Hopefully
this will be my weak round, because I really didn't play that well today. I bogeyed 1 and
3 and was just struggling. I had a chance at 4, missed that. A great par on 5, just short
of the green, 30 yards and putted it, made about a 10-footer from off the green there. No.
6, had about a 16 footer out of the -- about two inches in the rough and putted it off the
green and made it on the par-3. 8-footer from a save on 7, 9-iron. No. 8 and 9 I had about
12 to 15 footers and missed those. I missed about -- had a 5-iron into the 11th hole.
Par-5, hit it in the bunker, hit a shot about 8 or 9 feet out and missed that one. Good
putt at the par-3. 12, missed that. Made a good save, hit a poor chip on 13. Made about a
12-footer for a par. I missed about a 15, 16 footer, 14. Missed about a 10-footer at 15.
Hit a horrible drive on 16. Missed about a 9-footer. And I thought I had a good putt on
17. I hit a really good second shot, coming around the trees, and I tried to make it and
just left it two and a half feet short and made it. I know I'm going to have to play a lot
better tomorrow or someone -- is the forecast good for tomorrow? Same as today, no rain?
The greens were a little bit bumpy. When you play in the last group there's a little bit
of traffic, even though there's only 60 players, the greens got beat up a little bit. I
think that's where some of the guys struggled was really making a lot of putts. And the
wind was swirlier today than it was on Thursday, and from a different direction, out of
the north, which made the course, I think, play hard. 
 
 CHRIS PERRY: You couldn't reach the green in 2. I hit a 3-wood off the tee, just hit it
okay and tried to layup with a 4-iron, and I kind of got in front of it and sliced it up
on the hill. I had 141 yards, with the ball about a foot above my stance, easy to hook it
or hit it away right. And I came out perfect. Just landed barely on the green and rolled
up to about ten feet on the top and I made the putt. I was really fortunate that I didn't
chunk it in the water, because that's easy to do on that hole. I'm looking forward to
tomorrow. I had a great year this year, and hopefully I can cap it off with a good round
tomorrow. But I know I'm going to have to play a lot better. It's been a pleasure being
here, too, it's been a lot of fun, being in Spain and being in this great Championship. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT