JAPAN AIRLINES BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY GOLF MAGAZINE
July 13, 2000
Allison Finney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: I birdied the first hole, about 12 feet. 
 
Q. What did you hit on that one?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: A sand wedge. Just made pars, one long solid until 7, that real long
par 3. I missed the green and hit a pretty bad chip there and made par -- I mean made
bogey. We consider 4 there a par a lot of times. 
 
Q. Do you know how far your putt was for bogey?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: It was probably about -- 
 
Q. -- for par?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: It was probably about 15 feet. And I parred 8 and 9. I missed the green
on 10 and hit a really good chip there, just tapped it in for par. Bogeyed 12, missed the
green there, (inaudible) into the bunker and didn't get it up-and-down. And then 13 -- 
 
Q. Was that a putt on that for par?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Oh, it was probably 20 feet. 13, par 3, I made birdie. I hit an 8-iron
about 15 feet, and so that just put me back to even, so I'm just cruising along at even.
And then on 15, that par 5, I hit a 5-wood and ended up about 12 feet past the hole and
made that for eagle. And then 16, I hit a 6-iron about 3 feet below the hole so I had the
easy putt there and made birdie there. Then 17 I made par but I hit a bad drive, hit it
left and had to punch it under the tree and got up-and-down and saved the par. Then I
birdied 18. I hit a wedge in there, probably about 20, 25 feet, and made the putt. So,
like I said, I just went along and was coasting. 
 
Q. You were 4-under for the last four?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Yeah. 
 
Q. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: It was mostly straight. It just had ever so slight right-to-left, but
mostly straight. 
 
Q. You had two good rounds. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Well, I always like this course. I really enjoy playing because it's so
demanding, and I'm the kind of player where if par's a good score, that suits my game
better. I normally don't make a lot of birdies, and my putting can be a little suspect at
times. But my putting's been getting a lot better the last probably six weeks. I've been
working on it a lot, and so I've been making more of those 20-footers and making more
birdies. Actually, I didn't remember playing well here last year on Sunday, but I just
love this golf course. 
 
Q. Overall, can you go over your record this year. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Well, actually last week in Toledo was the first cut I'd made in -- I
missed four cuts in a row. I was missing by one, not being able to get it going. And
making the cut last week, where I was one of the last groups to play Friday afternoon, it
was a grind out there for me just to make the cut. That was like a big boost. Then I
played well on the weekend, and I just feel a lot better. I feel like last week has helped
me this week, and I'm just pretty relaxed out there. Hopefully I can keep it going. 
 
Q. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Well, just the fact that I'm not exempt this year, which is the first
year I didn't -- I've been on the Tour since '83 and I didn't get to play in the Majors
this year. It's just been hard to get started. Normally I've been able to play a much
fuller schedule and my game comes around in May and I have a good summer. That's been my
general, you know, pattern. And this year, not getting into those first tournaments, you
know, now we're in July, I'm starting to get where I usually am in May. So that's just
kind of the way it's been going. 
 
Q. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Well, they're the most -- two of the hardest holes are pars 3, the 7th
and the 4. But I think, you know, I played here every year, so every hole is hard.
(Laughing.) It can get you at any time. 
 
Q. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: I think maybe somewhere in the top 12 or 15. I don't think I've cracked
the Top 10 here. 
 
Q. How were the conditions out there?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: The breezes are just perfect. There's no wind out there, so it probably
played as nicely as it can. The conditions were good. 
 
Q. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: Oh, yeah. I mean this is a great course. Unfortunately, I don't get --
I'm not in the Open next week, so this is my Open this week. So I'm focusing on this one.
Hopefully I'll do well the rest of the week. 
 
Q. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 ALLISON FINNEY: I would -- I mean, yeah. I think it's got all the elements of the major
-- it's got a great golf course, great venue and great, you know, location, close to a big
city. And I mean I would be definitely in favor of that. It's, you know... I like coming
up here because I like to go do other things, too, during the week, go to the shows. And
actually yesterday I got to go down and see a rehearsal for "One Life to Live,"
the soap opera. That was a blast. (Laughing.) 
 Anyway, it was really fun. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT