BUICK CLASSIC
June 8, 2000
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: I wanted to play very well. I hit all the fairways today. I missed only
one green. It's nice way to make the pars. That's all, I don't know else what you want. 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: I started on the 10th. Bogeyed 15. I hit driver, fairway, 3-iron and I
made three putts there. I am used to the middle, hitting it there, and I hit a big slope
and got the speed of the ball, and not easy putt. And then birdie on the 17th. I hit a
driver, wedge. Then going to the 2nd, I hit a driver, wedge to five meters (18 feet). 3rd
is driver, 8-iron, to foot and a half. 5th, par 5, driver, driver, approach, 3 1/2 meters
(10 feet). Par 3, I hit just a U-wedge, four feet. And the 9th I took driver, 3-wood and
two putts from eight meters (24 feet) maybe.  
 
Q. This is your first time here, isn't it?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: First time here on this course, yeah. 
 
Q. How many holes did you get to play in practice? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Well, we play in the -- we played 13 holes on Monday because we landed
here on Sunday afternoon. We played before the Pro-Am. And then yesterday before the
Pro-Am, after all the rain the day before, I play nine holes. The rest of the holes, I
didn't play them on Monday. 
 
Q. So that's pretty impressive, not knowing the course very well, shooting 5-under.
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Yeah, I played very well. I hit it -- I told you I hit all the fairways
and this -- every time, it's right in the middle you know and I miss only one green.  
 
Q. Which green was that? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: It was at the 18th. And I hit the fairway and I missed my 3-wood and I
get in the bunker. For the bunker I hit a very good one, pitch and roll down and make it.
That's the only one green I missed today. But this is -- you cannot make all the putts,
you know. 
 
Q. What is the big difference between playing here and playing in Europe?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Well, if I sit here, the conditions of the course always is great
conditions, and if I play -- it's all different with Europe, these things. It's very nice
to be here and play here.  
 
Q. Is this a good stopover on the way out to Pebble Beach? Does it work out well to
play here and then go on to the West Coast? Is that one of the reasons why you came?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Well, it's always nice to play the week before a major when you come in
for the U.S. Open or the Masters. It's always nice to play the week before. And it's three
hours difference there, so it's better to have three than nine.  
 
Q. Have you played Pebble Beach before?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: No. It's going to be the first time. 
 
Q. Have you been driving the ball well recently in general? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Yeah. I try a couple drivers. I hit them very, very straight. I don't
know what happens tomorrow. Maybe tomorrow it starts to make like this (indicating left
and right.) 
 
Q. Having never played Pebble before, do you get excited about that as a golfer?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: I get excited, yes, because I hear a lot about this area, and I really
like to be there next week.  
 
Q. What about the European's history in the U.S. Open, and do you think that could be
overcome, finally? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Well, I don't know what you want me to talk about this, you know. How
many Europeans played on the U.S. Open, 10 percent of the field, 5 percent of the field?
The past years you take the average, it's nothing to talk about. If they have, 50 percent
probably finish different winners. I think there's nothing to talk about this. 
 
Q. Jose Maria's comments last week about the European Tour and it being too English and
maybe coming over here, what did you think about all that have and did it catch you by
surprise?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: It's better you ask this question to him, you know. He's right on some
things. I think we have to tell you -- the thing, I cannot speak for him, you know. But I
think he probably don't get the -- what that he needed to be there, I don't know. 
 
Q. What about your opinion? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: For myself? I think, you know I'm 36 years old now and I don't know if
I'm going to come here or try to play here full time. I have my family, my friend, I've
got two kids, and I am a family man, you know and I don't want to bring my family here.
I'm very happy in the place where I live. And I like my family around. For me that's more
important thing. I know he has a lot more money and a lot more to think about. For me the
life is not only money. For me it is quality of life, some of the things also in the life. 
 
Q. What kind of things have they been telling you about Pebble? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: It's a great golf course. It's nothing to be like -- AT&T, with the
course, that you have to drive the ball very straight. The rough is -- the area is
magnificent, you know, and supposed to play -- I would like to play, and then I will tell
you more about the course. Anyway about the question before, I would like to play here if
I were younger. For sure I would come to play here and try, for sure. The way they treat
the professionals here is very, very nice and we probably need these things also in
Europe.  
 
Q. Are they coming to Europe? Is that beginning to happen in Europe?
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: Well, we hope so. Hope so. But we need to learn -- I think we will
learn but we are not talking the things properly for it.  
 
Q. Because you're treated like royalty here, aren't you? 
 
 MIGUEL JIMENEZ: It's nice, you come here, you've got your car, always you've got
information what there is around. The facilities, always beautiful conditions, the course
setup, the course is fantastic always. And it's what you're looking for in professional,
golf, you saw on TV and all of the world, beautiful facilities. I don't know, if they are
blind there or they going to putt on -- but it's very nice.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT