WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 1999
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I didn't hit the ball well on the first nine holes. I have missed important greens. The
wind makes the golf course more difficult. At times you were hitting good shots from the
tee, but you could miss the fairway and it was difficult to attack the green. If you miss
the fairway there is a little bit of semi-rough. On the back nine I missed two and a half
meters back on the 10th for birdie. I also missed from five meters at the 12th. And from
three and a half meters on the 13th. And from one meter, 20 centimeters on the 14th. The
first nine holes I was just okay. But I hit more greens on the back nine. This is not a
long golf course, but it is a very demanding one. And normally either you have a breeze or
the levante wind is blowing. And it is difficult to control the ball from the rough.
That's why it is very important to hit every fairway and have a good lie for your second
shot. I was much better on the back nine holes. I worked harder there. I think today it
should have been a couple of shots less. Justin Leonard played his own game and that's
what we all have to do. We should forget about the Ryder Cup. That's water under the
bridge. We should not be thinking of that any longer. Second hole, 3-wood into the
semi-rough, 6-iron and a very long putt from 20 meters. Third hole, 7-iron, chip, three
meters, two putts. 9th hole, driver, 5-iron, chip, two-meter putt. 10th, 2-iron into the
rough, 7-iron, sand wedge, two meters, two putts. 11th, driver, 3-wood, sand wedge,
two-meter putt. 15th, 2-iron, bunker, three-meter putt. 17th, driver, 3-wood, nine meters,
two putts.

End of FastScriptsÃ¢ï¿½ ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT