AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 10, 1999
Trot Nixon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Trot, have you, speaking for both yourself and your team, ever been on a roller
coaster of emotions like the last couple games here?
 
 TROT NIXON: Not that I can recall. It's exciting to be in this position. You know, this
team has been through a lot this year. And we've gone out, played great baseball, won 94
games this year. It has been a roller coaster ride this year. It's been exciting. Here we
are, we've battled back from two games down against a great team in Cleveland. Both teams
are going to go out there and go to war in Game 5. 
 
Q. How contagious does something like this become?
 
 TROT NIXON: Well, you know, you get -- you build your confidence up a lot at the plate
and so forth. We swung the bat really well tonight against a great pitching staff. You
know, they have missed a few spots here and there, you know. That kind of stuff happens,
and we just were able to put the bat on the ball and hit it hard, find the holes out
there. Some days you face great pitching; some days, you know, they make a few mistakes
and you're able to capitalize on it. So, you know, I'm sure Nagy's not going to make many
mistakes tomorrow. It would be nice if he would a few times, but we know we're going to
have to go to war against him because he's going to come with his best stuff. 
 
Q. How quickly did you guys know Bartolo didn't have his good stuff right off the bat?
 
 TROT NIXON: Well, I thought he had his good stuff. He's throwing 95 to 100 miles an
hour. Usually when a pitcher comes out throwing like that, he's got some good stuff. I
think he missed a few spots here and there early in the game, got behind a few counts and
had to throw strikes. When he was throwing strikes, he was getting the ball over the plate
a little too much. That's what he did against me. I let him supply the power tonight, just
put the bat on the ball with a guy like Bartolo. He's such an overpowering pitcher. You
just let his power generate where the ball's going to go. 
 
Q. No team has ever scored 23 runs in a post-season game ever. That goes back to 1903.
That's something. Is that something you'll look back on and think "That's hard to
believe?"
 
 TROT NIXON: Yeah, you will. It's such a great team the Indians have over there, such a
great pitching staff. It's one of those things, we came out swinging the bat, and, you
know, they made some good pitches tonight. They made a few mistakes. We were able to hit
both mistakes and good pitches, and Val had a great night tonight. I was just happy to be
able to help the team score a few runs here and there. Everybody else, it seemed like it
was a snowball effect. The hitting was contagious. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT