U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1995
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Happy with the way you played today, the match?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, always you win, you have to be happy even if you play bad. First
matches always are difficult to get to the match and in a tournament and I think I played
okay.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about John McEnroe? Why did you ask him or how did you ask
him to coach you; what is he doing with your game?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I ask him because it was my father and me thought it was good
idea for me to improve my game on this surface that I have trouble to play on this,
because I never play and I think I can learn so much from him, and he has helped me a lot
this week and before, and I am very happy about it.

Q. What are you trying to get him to help you with?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, to play well on this surface; how to play the surface. 

Q. You are looking to serve and volley more. Are you looking to come in?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Looking to win. Doesn't matter the way.

Q. What has he been able to do so far? You just started with him last week.

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, one week.

Q. What has he been able to do so far? What have you learned from him so far?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, a lot of things. We talk a lot of things about my volley, my
serve, the way you should play on this surface, you know, the mentality. Also, I have to
change from clay court to this surface and a lot of aspects in the game. Everything from
every--

Q. How much is your father helping you now, in your tennis?

SERGI BRUGUERA: The same as always.

Q. I know how much, thank you very much. Will you use McEnroe -- is this just for the
Open or will you ask John -- have you talked about working with John in the future or is
it just for the Open?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, at the moment we spoke for here, but maybe we can work sometimes
more if he wants to. I think it would be a good idea.

Q. John is a very open, talkative, outgoing kind of person. You seemed like maybe your
personality is a little different than John's. How do you get a long? How does it work.

SERGI BRUGUERA: Very good. I think working very good. We have fun and I have good
relations and I am very well with him talking with him, practicing with him. I feel very
good.

Q. Sergi, why didn't you play at Wimbledon, last Wimbledon?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Because I was injured, my knee.

Q. Is he trying to make you go for more on your serve? I mean, you are a big guy --

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah. We are working also, you know, to play this surface. The most
important thing is the serve by far, 80% of the game, and as much as I serve better, is
much easier to play on this courts, you have free points and then you have easy balls to
attack; then after your good serve and of course, it is one of the most important points
of the game.

Q. Sergi, are you 100% now in terms of your -- physically do you feel totally fine now
or are you still a little bit of short of conditioning and work?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I am not 100%, but I am feeling much, much better than before. I
am feeling every time much, much better.

Q. John McEnroe is helping you now. Will you go to him to the United States or he will
come to you to Spain from time to time? How do you see the cooperation between the two of
you?

SERGI BRUGUERA: For the moment after the U.S. Open we finish.

Q. What do you think he will say to you when you talk after -- about your match today;
how you played, the things that he has been trying to teach you; how will you think he
will critique your match today?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, we talk very few because he have to go to do the match, and he
knows that to change your game completely is impossible. You have to change very little,
and little and then and he is saying a lot of things that it is difficult for me and he
knows that it is difficult that I cannot change and do whatever he says every time. I
think -- I don't know, but I think I play okay. I do a few things that he has told me and
I did it right. I am happy about a lot of things that I didn't know that was better for
this surface or a little like tricks that normally on clay I know everything and here,
sometimes I was waiting too much for the ball and you have to -- basically -- everything
is much attack, attack in the match, much faster and have to be more -- on clay you have
more time. Here it is less time, so you have to be very concentrate. The ball is like all
the time going fast and stop and going fast; whereas, in clay, you have more time to
recover the balls even though you don't hit any good shot. Here it is different.

Q. Have you decided with John how long this relationship will last? Six months? Three
months? What?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, we just talk for him to the Open and he is always very busy doing a
lot of other things and he is like a favor that I am working with him; I am so happy about
this, whatever -- we didn't talk. We just talking about this tournament and after when we
finish, we talk about sometimes to work a few weeks or whatever he wants in the future,
but we don't -- we didn't say nothing specifically.

Q. Whose idea was it?

SERGI BRUGUERA: My father's idea and then he talked with me and I was very happy about
this idea too.

Q. He talked to you when about it?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think after the French Open.

Q. Did it sound good right away to you, or did you think about it a while?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, right away.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT