U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you like hard courts? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I like more clay, of course, but I think now I like so much more
because now I think I play better and I am more confident when I play. I play a lot of
tournaments, that gives me a lot of confidence and I know how to play on this surface and
I think I am getting better and better every time.  
 
Q. How come? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Because I play more often.  
 
Q. Had you been avoiding hard court tournaments in the past? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, this is my first year I came to the States very early. I played
Toronto and I play Cincinnati and Indianapolis, Schenectady. And well, I am trying to play
as much as possible on hard court for to learn how to play; the tactics there and
everything. And I think the only way for me now to improve is playing matches because
practice is very difficult because you don't know-- the countrymen, they play on clay like
you; it is difficult.  
 
Q. What is the biggest tactic? What tactics had you had to learn to play on hard court?

 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think on hard court it is very difficult to come back. If you
just concentrate a little for one moment or for a while, it is very difficult to come back
because if the other player's good on hard court, it is very difficult to break back and
to come back. So you have to be all the time very concentrate. If you have a big serve,
normally even distraction with your serve, you can handle it all the time.  
 
Q. Did you find out at Wimbledon that you have the athletic ability to come to the net
to handle other surfaces besides clay? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah. Well, I always think that I can play on hard court and indoor. On
grass, never I thought that I could play so good. But well, this year I came to try and
also because I have to prepare Davis Cup and I play -- I play very good and give me a lot
of confidence. Davis Cup I play also two matches; that give me a lot of confidence for the
future. And also the hard court is much difficult for me. I think I play better indoor
because I play much more in indoors. I have much better results, because normally when it
is the hard court season, there is also a lot of clay court tournaments in Europe and I
used to play that tournament before. But indoor I play the early season of the year and at
the end of the year I play also very much; that is why I think I play better indoor.  
 
Q. As the No. 3 seed, do you feel that you have a realistic shot to win this
tournament? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, this tournament is very difficult. The Grand Slams, always they
play the best players, two weeks, and it is very, very difficult always to win Grand Slam.
Also, if it is not your best surface and you -- it is much more difficult. I don't think
about winning. I just think about every match and I would like to do it well one time in
the states, of course, in the Open.  
 
Q. Were you worried at all facing Shelton who has got a good power game; did so well at
Wimbledon? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, Shelton is very, very dangerous player because he tries all the
time for -- very aggressive. He tries so -- too much risking and try for a lot of winners.
He has very big serve that is so difficult to break and also on this hard court, it
bounces so high and it is very fast and very good for him. And well, he beat very, very
good players. He always gives a lot of surprises. He is not very regular, maybe, but he
gives a lot of surprises.  
 
Q. Were you surprised with the 6-0 in the first set? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I was, maybe, surprised how well I was reading his serve and how
well I was returning, but the way it was coming, I feel that I cannot lose the game when I
was playing at that moment.  
 
Q. There are a lot of Spanish players at the top right now, women and men. Do you think
about that or do you think that it is just by coincidence or do you think it is real
Spanish -- 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know -- I don't understand the question.  
 
Q. There is a lot of Spanish players at the top right now. Do you think it is just a
coincidence or is there certain policy by the Federation or whatever? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think like this win, the French Open, and final winning, the
girls, and winning in Wimbledon and two top 10s and one is 18 and I think it is not
coincidence, no, no. Never happens, things like that. I think it is very hard work behind
this and I think well, the Spanish players, they are good fighters and they work very hard
and that is why they play very well and on top. Not just this, there is a lot of players
they on clay, they do it very well like Corretja and Javier Sanchez; there are so many.  
 
Q. Are you the most popular player in Spain right now? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Tennis?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know. Arantxa is very popular, Conchita now too, Berasategui
too, Costa too, there are so many popular  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT