AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 16, 1999
Roger Clemens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How did you feel coming out of the bullpen?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: I felt great. In the bullpen everything went pretty well. My velocity
was pretty good. I took it to the mound with me too. I think I had pretty good velocity
out there. Right from the get-go, once Offerman hit the ball I knew my location would
probably have to get better. I think it was evident I had to go back. I went back and
towards the end of the game I saw the replay on Val's ball and it was a cross-seamer away
and it ran like a two-seamer. It was up, too. He hit it in the net and you definitely
don't want to have a start like that, that is for sure. Because, again, like I stated
yesterday, any mistakes you want to keep it a minimum. At that point two runs you are
fighting and clawing right there because I feel that we knew that Pedro would be tough. 
 
Q. 2-0 lead here is not that much as you know from your years here. What happened?
Whatever you weren't doing right didn't correct itself?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: Second inning on I felt good again. I felt I was making some good
pitches, they got some hits off some good pitches. Again, my slider was pretty good and
talking to Joe in between, he says great, just concentrate on getting the ball down a
little bit more. We really started working. I was down a couple of times, I got behind
guys, was able to fight back. But again, give those guys credit, they fought. And it is
obvious even in the Cleveland series watching those guys a few times, big numbers, they
were able to post up, you got to fight, you got to stay ahead or they put up some numbers
in their stadium for sure. 
 
Q. Your record in the regular season is much better than your record in the postseason;
how do you explain that?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: Just like this year, I mean, 14 wins, you could have more either way and
same thing in postseason. I have thrown the ball well in postseason play. I won't consider
tonight one of those obviously. Again, I thought that, you know, made some good pitches,
but it wasn't good enough. You can't continue to give up runs and have a chance when you
are facing Pedro. The two runs; again, once Val hit the homer, you kind of -- you take a
couple of steps back and you got to realize you got to make better, more crisp pitches.
But playoff-wise, wasn't any different than -- I think I had just about everything I had
working in Texas except maybe some location. 
 
Q. Roger, the fans were pretty vocal against you. Were you able to tone them out? Did
you hear it? Did it bother you at all?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: Yeah, I was it was pretty good even down the bullpen, I was locked in
pretty good. You expect that in opposing stadiums anyway. Texas it was loud, just as loud;
if not louder. I mean, I am facing some pretty good hitters, so I wanted to be pretty
locked in on that. Again, once I got in trouble in the first inning, it is real easy to
try and get a hold of yourself and try and make some good pitches and get through it. Any
time you are in a visiting stadium, it is going to be loud and so you just -- you are used
to that. 
 
Q. Could you relate the conversation you had with Joe out there before you came out?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: Girardi? 
 
Q. No, Joe Torre.
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: I didn't have a conversation. He came out to the mound and said he is
bringing in Hideki. I saw Hideki warming up, just -- you know, there wasn't a real whole
lot said, just felt like I wasn't throwing the ball well enough to continue to stay out
there. You can't continue to put the guys in the hole and not the way Pedro was throwing.
Our guys were -- I don't even think Pedro had his ace stuff. I don't know, you could ask
him. But he had that changeup working again and as you give him more and more cushion, he
can throw just about anything, throw a 3, 2, changeups, whatever he wanted to throw. 
 
Q. How tough was it for you coming in here and to this place and wanting to do it and
have to leave the game that early?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: I was in a situation where, you know, I knew what I was up against and
obviously I'd love to make a better showing than that. Everything happens for a reason, so
I can't question -- I will continue to work as hard as ever and, you know, I hope I don't
have to pitch again. But if I do, I will be ready. It is one game and our guys will come
back out. Hopefully maybe I made them tired. I doubt it, but we will see what happens. I
think it is going to be a hard-fought. These guys are tough. I think I know a couple of
the guys over there in the opposing dugout too well. I think a couple of them are too
comfortable, to be honest with you, against me. I have to make some changes there. But
Andy will come out and pitch his heart out and the guys will come out battling. That is
the way this team is. 
 
Q. This is much in the lines of what you just sad. How much in your heart of hearts did
you want to come in here and really dominate this team, on this day, given it was Pedro
and --
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: I always want to pitch well. Makes no difference if it's here or there.
But I am just -- I am disappointed. I wanted to obviously be sharper than I was and
definitely I didn't want to give them that much momentum early. They came out and got the
momentum early off me. That is disappointing because I don't -- I didn't want to put our
guys in the hole either. To me, two runs were too much at that point. I didn't want to
walk anybody. I definitely didn't want to get in that stage, and two runs were too much.
But I definitely wanted to obviously throw better than that. 
 
Q. Ever recall being taken out when you were ahead on a hitter and could you expand a
little bit on what you said about guys being too comfortable against you?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: I don't know on the first question, I don't know if it's ever happened
before. I just think I need to expand. I just think some guys are just too comfortable and
it is not a great feeling to have, but I just think some guys get too comfortable up there
and you like to expand and it is something that I think I need to do more of. 
 
Q. In the clubhouse a few minutes ago George Steinbrenner was asked about your
performance. He said these things happen. Can't just let it happen again. How do you take
that?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: Well, the boss was floating around the club house earlier too and I
don't think -- I think he is a little under the weather and he came in especially for
this. Obviously I am disappointed too. He flew up not feeling well. I wanted to make a
better showing with him in the building than that, for sure. 
 
Q. You said location was your prime problem. Did it go back to mechanics, rushing like
it was in Baltimore last regular season started?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: I made some -- my location was okay at times. A couple of balls ran back
over, like you said, the four-seamer usually doesn't do that, but you know, not -- I don't
feel like I was rushing too much. My motions were under control. I felt real comfortable
out there. So, yeah, I don't -- I didn't experience like I felt that I was wild and I
couldn't get the ball in the strike zone. I made some good pitches. I think someone hit
one off the end of the bat; another one hit the ball in the hole. That is when you want to
minimize big innings. They just kept coming. I think I had two outs when they pushed
another run across. 
 
Q. Any reason why your location was off a little bit?
 
 ROGER CLEMENS: It was off a little bit. Again, they didn't offer at some good pitches I
threw down and they got in hitter's counts. But it is just the way it goes. I am
disappointed. Again I felt I had plenty of stuff to continue and get the job done, but I
was pitching from the wind up a bunch of times with men on second and third. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT