NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 6, 1999
Larry Dierker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Would you have brought Monte in last night?

LARRY DIERKER: No. 

Q. Yesterday you tried to be aggressive early, you attempted to squeeze, guys were
running first to third, and you weren't getting all the breaks. Were you starting this
think: "Things aren't going our way in the playoffs"?

LARRY DIERKER: No, I never have that thought. I felt a little more relaxed personally
this year than in the last two playoffs. I think there is some advantage to being the
underdog. It takes a little pressure off. Last year with San Diego, you know, they had the
worst record amongst division winners. And we went over 100 games and we had Randy Johnson
on the mound and we had the home field. I didn't feel the pressure that we were supposed
to win. This year, I think is more like the first year when we came in here with an 84-win
championship and tried to play the Braves. We were the underdogs, and we didn't play all
that well in that series, but then it was the first postseason opportunity for most of our
players. This year, I think we have the psychological advantage of being able to relax
knowing that a lot of our players have been hurt throughout the year and nobody has
expected us to do this well, and probably very few people expected at the outset that we
could win this series. So maybe for that reason, I felt relaxed. I haven't felt pressure.
I think when we play aggressively and fail, my only hope is that we will continue to play
aggressively. What I found is that when a team gets in a slump, a team starts getting too
conservative and guys worry about getting thrown out or they worry about having a bad
swing or making a bad pitch. And that's the nature, I guess of the beast, whether it's
baseball or anything else, when we get in a slump, we start to think too much, and get too
conservative. So I was happy that we continued to play aggressively even after some of our
aggressive attempts didn't work in the early part of the game, and I expect that we'll
continue to play that way. However, I know there have been times during the season when we
haven't. There were times when we're trying to encourage guys to steal and they won't go.
It's frustrating at times, but that's the psychology of it. I talked about that a lot when
I was announcing. When you get in a slump, everybody starts trying to be too careful.
You'd like them not to, but they are only doing what they think is right and what they
feel is going to be successful for them. 

Q. Given their pedigree, do you expect that sooner or later, sooner probably Biggio and
Bagwell will have that big game?

LARRY DIERKER: I don't know what's going to happen with those two guys. The key to them
hitting well is for the pitcher to throw them a pitch that they can hit well. For Biggio,
of course, also with a pitcher, a guy that he can get a read on and steal a base against.
Defensively, they are excellent. They both work the count well and get on base with walks,
and they have both been the types of players over the year that can help you win even when
they are not hitting and they are just like any other hitters. They go through times when
they are hitting real well and times when they have trouble getting the hits. I think that
the probability is that if they play in enough playoffs that they are going to have a
great series, and one of them will be an MVP of a series at some point, just the laws of
probability. They will get into a series where a guy makes mistakes and they will be
swinging the bat well. I hope that it is this series. But one thing I think is appropriate
to say here is that even the greatest hitters can't hit when the pitcher is pitching well.
Barry Bonds hasn't done well in the postseason; and for me over the last decade, he's been
the best hitter in the league. So you can only do what the pitcher will allow you to do. I
think as much as anything, there are problems in the postseason, and past years has been a
tip-of-your-hat-to-the-pitcher type thing, more so than the fact that they were coming up
and not hitting well. 

Q. Can you talk about Wagner and his development and specifically, where does he get
that power?

LARRY DIERKER: For me, he's a lot like Nolan Ryan. He's not as tall, but he's not a
small guy. He's short but he's not small. He's got big strong legs, just like Ryan had and
he's got great snap? The wrist. You know, when you talk about throwing a ball, you've got
this lever here where your shoulder moves your arm forward, and this one that moves the
arm forward, and you have the last one, which is the wrist, (indicating), and I think and
most hard throwers, the last part of that, the is most important. He can just stand here
and flip the ball and shoot it across the room, hard, without even taking any kind of a
wind-up. He's just got a tremendous, quick snap of the wrist, and that's what Ryan had,
too. Neither one of those guys would draw their arm way back and come way over in what
looked like -- maybe it looks more powerful. They both seem to do it rather effortlessly,
and I think probably the common thing in those two guys is the strong legs and the snap of
the wrist. Also to answer the first part of that question, his development has been
steady. Each year he has gotten a little bit better. He's still having a little trouble
working his breaking ball into the 9th inning, and it's understandable. It's certainly not
his best pitch. When you're in a game situation in the 9th inning, you hate to get beat
with another pitch, but there are some hitters that can hit the ball at 98 miles an hour,
as the Mets proved last night, and there are times when he needs to have another pitch.
This year, he's made some slight progress in that area, but he's made great process in
locating his fastball. Strikeouts are up, even from what he did last year. His walks are
way down from what he did last year, and he's not just throwing the ball down the middle,
trying to throw it by everybody. He's putting his fastball in one corner and then the
other, and he's made tremendous progress in that area. He's made progress with the
breaking ball, but he's made tremendous progress in the ability to spot his fastball on
the corners without walking batters. 

Q. There's a great case for Mike Hampton to be a Cy Young award winner. Do you think
his style has a disadvantage against Randy Johnson in terms of not having more strikeouts,
and is that fair?

LARRY DIERKER: I think so. The MVP and the Cy Young and all those votes have surprised
me over the years from time to time. Generally speaking, guys that win those awards are on
teams that win championships; and so it's not that their deeds are perhaps more important
than similar deeds by other players on teams that don't win championships. I've always
been skeptical about that. I felt that the best player should win whether he's on a
winning team or not. I think that generally speaking, strikeout pitchers and home run
hitters have a slight advantage over crafty pitchers and
get-on-base-and-score-and-hit-for-average type of hitters. I think maybe he's at some
slight disadvantage. For me, the number that to really counts is winning; and he's got the
most wins, and even in his games where he's had no decision, we have generally won. And I
think he's made 34 starts and won 29 of them. I don't care how many people you strike out.
You know, that's pretty good ammunition to be against anybody with. 

Q. How does Hampton compare to Glavine?

LARRY DIERKER: Hampton has become more like Glavine. He uses a variety of pitches;
whereas, Glavine seems to use variations of the same pitch most of the time. But the way
that he has become like Glavine is that he has begun to believe that if he never throws
anybody a good strike to hit, that eventually he'll get out of the inning with no runs
even if he walks a couple guys. I tried to explain to our hitters that Glavine and Maddux
are two entirely different animals. They both like to pitch to the outside corner but
Glavine would rather walk you than give you a good pitch to hit and Maddux would rather
give you a good pitch to hit than walk you. So Maddux walks with 20, 30, 40 guys a year
and Glavine 80 or 100 guys a year. Hampton has become more like Glavine. Just become very
stingy in terms of trying to throw anything over the middle of the plate and as a result,
he walks more batters than I would like him to walk. But with his ability to get the
ground ball, quite often, he's been able to get the double play to erase the walk, and
because of his style of pitching, he doesn't give up many extra-base hits. So if you get
balls you can afford to walk people, the only hits you're giving up you are singles, and
that's basically been his style, which I think is almost the same exact style as Glavine.
The only difference is that Mike throws his slider, change-up more than Glavine. Glavine
throws most of the same speeds to the same corner and Mike will use both corners. 

Q. Wagner came up through your organization as a starter. Who converted him and why?

LARRY DIERKER: I'm not sure what the answer to that question is. I'm not sure at what
point they decided he would be a relief pitcher, but for me, he was a relief pitcher from
the first time I saw him in spring training as an announcer. He always struggled to get
his offspeed and breaking balls over the plate. And throwing as hard as he does, if you're
just throwing all fastballs, after four or five innings, you start to slow down a little
bit and they start hitting you. But for one inning, you know, it's almost unbeatable if
you're throwing 98 miles an hour. It allows him to air it out and not worry about mixing
up his speeds and locations as much. I think it was the logical thing to do. In fact, I
was talking to Nolan Ryan day before yesterday when we had the celebration for the last
regular season game in the Dome, and I asked him if he thought that if the game of
baseball if he came up is like it is now, if he would have been made a closer instead of a
starter. And he smiled. He didn't really answer that question that I recall. But my
opinion is that if he had come up in today's game, with as much trouble as he had getting
his curveball over early in his career, that he would have been made a closer instead of a
starter.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT