NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Larry Dierker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. With your 1 and 6 Division Series record the last couple of years have you
questioned yourself about those games and whether you could have done anything
differently?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: I don't know -- no, not really. I don't remember what I did the last two
times. I know we haven't performed well in the postseason and each time we have lost the
first game and each time it has been a five-game series and when you lose that first game,
it is an uphill struggle. Last year getting Randy Johnson, I think depending upon him so
heavily and then losing the first game with him pitching was -- I think it was a real body
blow to the whole team, a game we anticipated winning and we won 102 games last year, I
just think we felt we were going to win that first game and go on. Then we didn't win the
first game which really was tough. So in winning the first game today, I think it puts the
shoe on the other foot. I am not going to say that the Braves feel like they are in a
tremendous disadvantage because they have played so well in our ballpark that I think they
feel like when playing in Houston practically it is like playing at home. We still have to
win two more games. I don't think that is going to be easy but I haven't thought much
about what I did strategically in those other series. To be honest having to go right up
until Sunday to even know you were going to get in the Playoffs, and really concentrate on
the regular season, didn't give me much time to think about what we were going to do here.
Last year we clinched so early we looked at every one of our pitchers and how they
performed against every one of the possible Playoff teams; then we looked at how they did
in those parks and our home park and, you know, we did a lot of mental gymnastics trying
to get ourselves prepared to enter the series in the best possible way. I don't know if
the Braves did that this year, but they probably did because they clinched early enough to
think about those things. We played on Sunday and we won and we knew we were in the
Playoffs. We worked out yesterday and waited for the game and came here. We got here late;
went to sleep; got up and came back out here again. In a way I think that might have been
a bonus, maybe not a bonus, but it may have been a better scenario for us than had we gone
to Phoenix and arrived relatively early and then had to sit around all day waiting to go
to the ballpark. This way, there wasn't much time to think about anything and really what
you do there, at least what I do in a game, depends on that one game. I can't remember
anything that I did in those other series. 
 
Q. Shane talked about the strategy and talking about not letting Chipper beat them. Is
it that simple?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, our scouting reports say: Don't let him beat you. But we don't
tell our pitchers that. There are situations where you have to pitch to him. Frankly, I am
surprised that Shane pitched around him with men on first and second to load the bases
because now you are up against it; you're still facing a good power hitter, you can't
afford to be careful; you have to throw the ball in the strike zone. That made me a little
nervous. I think had I been pitching, I probably would have tried to hit Chipper out
there. If he leads off an inning -- I mean, it is hard to just put the lead-off man on
because even as hot as he is, he makes more outs than he gets hits, and when he gets hits,
he gets more singles than he gets extra basehits, or maybe 50/50, I don't know. But the
chance of him doing something better than a walk is not great. So I think you got to pitch
to him if he is leading off an inning. That is what happened with Doug Henry, they threw
him a pitch leading off an inning; they got him out. I think that whenever you face a team
that has a guy that's really hot, that you try not to throw him any strikes in a situation
where you can afford to not throw him any strikes - base open, man on second, sort of
thing; two outs nobody on, that sort of thing. So we haven't really told our pitchers just
to not let him beat you. We just said to pitch him carefully because he is hot. 
 
Q. Shane talked about having some mechanical difficulties and he has ironed them out.
How would you assess his performance today?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: I thought his performance was really good. He felt after looking at some
paper that he wasn't getting much movement on his fast ball. He normally has a sinking
type fast ball. He worked on some things with Vernon and shortened his arm stroke a little
bit; tried to get slightly different angle. He felt like he had more movement on the ball
in this game and I would say that he probably needed it because I could tell by the way
Maddux was reacting. Then he felt like he was getting squeezed a little bit; wasn't
getting the corner calls that he is used to. When Shane came in, he said that the strike
zone was tight; that he wasn't getting the corner calls that he is used to. And I didn't
see any inconsistency in Mike Winters; looked like he was, as far as low and high, and
what I could see, he looked like he was pretty consistent. But I would say from the
reactions of the pitchers that he was more of a hitters' umpire, forcing to you get the
ball on the plate. With that said, I mean, a guy pitches six innings against the Braves
with that kind of a strike zone and gives up one run on sort of a dribbler up the middle,
I would say that is pretty darn good. Then Miller, Henry, and Wagner came in and did the
same thing. You know, up until Caminiti's home run, they did the same thing to us. I felt
like with the way the game was going, you know, that if you had pitchers that didn't have
real good control, it could have been a lot of walks today and there could have been a lot
of runs scored. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the suicide squeeze and what happened there? 
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, we squeezed and they sniffed it out. I don't know if they knew we
were going to squeeze. I don't think they had our signs. On a 1 and 0, it is almost a free
pitchout if you want to do it; especially with Maddux pitching to a pitcher. You are not
in great fear that he is going to walk the batter, if you give up one ball intentionally.
So it is not a 1 - 0 pitch -- I mean, an 0 - 1 pitch is not a normal suicide squeeze
count. Usually you do it when the pitcher is behind in the count and has to throw a strike
and you don't think that the manager will pitch out. I didn't think he would pitch out
because it is not normal count. Normally, you don't do it -- I don't think I have done it
in three years with one strike and no balls. But they pitched out; I don't think our
runner broke early. I don't think the hitter squared around. I think they just decided to
pitch out. That is why they call it the suicide squeeze, when it doesn't work, it kills
you. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 LARRY DIERKER: I wasn't really afraid that he would hit into a double play. In fact,
statistically a double play is not a great likelihood. When Caminiti hit into the double
play after they walked Everett, you know, they got what they wanted but it is not a high
probability. Reynolds doesn't run that well so it is a little higher with him because if
he hits the ground ball they are probably going to get the double play. Maddux throws a
lot of ground balls, but I wasn't thinking about the double play. I was thinking we get
another run in and we have second and third and Biggio would be up in that situation. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your decision to take Shane Reynolds out and did the play at
third take anything out of him?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, I don't know how much it took out of him. He is a very well
conditioned guy. I mean, almost fanatic about conditioning, but my experience as a pitcher
tells me that when you have to run that hard on the bases it takes something out of you.
His pitch count wasn't extremely high, but on the other hand, we had a lead and, yeah,
that dash from first to third had something to do with my decision. 
 
Q. How big was the home run in the 9th? I know there is not much carryover from one
game to the next but will that help jump-start the offense a little bit?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, I don't know. I don't think about carryovers from one day to the
next, but I think it was big because it allowed Wagner the freedom to go after the
hitters, Chipper Jones -- I mean Andrew Jones is a guy that can hit the ball out of the
park, already had a two-run lead, but if he does that, then you are square. Billy has had
trouble a couple of times against this club; gave him some breathing room. He ended up
throwing some sliders which he normally doesn't, so gave him a chance to put that thought
in their minds that he might do it again and he had a real good slider, so I think the
biggest plus about that home run was what it did mentally for Billy in terms of closing
this game and what it may do for him in other circumstances if he gets out there again.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT