NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 9, 1999
Larry Dierker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about how this season has been for you personally and how you feel now?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, the season has been very satisfying for me in terms of the big
picture, and I guess the team in some way, what happened with the team is reflected in
what happened to me because what seemed like a disaster turned out to be a bump in the
road, and, as with so many of our other injuries, you know, Alou and Hidalgo and Gutierrez
and Caminiti, all these things seemed like they would be disasters and all of them ended
up to be things that we could overcome and so because of that, it's been very satisfying.
And I feel great. You know, I felt great, you know, a week after the surgery and I've been
feeling good ever since. And I'm really proud of what the guys have been able to do this
year in the conditions that we had to do it. I hope we have still got a little bit more in
us. 
 
Q. Are you a hundred percent back now?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Yeah. I've been a hundred percent back. I'm about 110 percent back. I
gained a little weight over the first month or so when I wasn't working out, but I have
been working out the last couple of months. 
 
Q. You were talking earlier about not being able to drive for about six months. Are you
able to drive now?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Yeah. You can't drive for six months and that's the law in Texas. I've
got to wait I figure until December 13th, which is another reason why I like to go deeper
into these playoffs because I know once I get home with every day free that it's going to
be hard not to drive. With the season going on, all I need to do is get a ride to the park
and back. It has not been a great handicap, so I would like to keep this going for another
three weeks or so. So my down time in the winter trying to figure out how I'm going to get
around is reduced. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Wagner's status with today's game?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: He has a sore elbow and he may or may not be able to pitch. My suspicion
is that he won't be able to pitch, but my suspicion is also that if we get a lead and it
gets late in the game, it's going to be if he wants to pitch, if he does that and feels
good, I would use him. I mean this is a day of no tomorrow. I'm not going to risk his
elbow and our future on this one game, but if he warms up and says it's all right, I
can't, you know, I have to trust his judgment because the doctors don't think there's
anything in there that needs surgery or that it's career threatening or anything like
that. We basically have to go on how he feels. 
 
Q. After an emotional draining game last night, what's the mood of the clubhouse?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: It's about the same. It seems to be about the same all the time, which I
think is one of our strengths that we don't seem to get too upset or too down when we have
problems. By the same token, you can't really tell that much difference when we were on
the 12-game winning streak. It's sort of a business-like atmosphere, and I think the mood
is about the same as it's been all year. 
 
Q. Larry, how did you sleep last night? 
 
 LARRY DIERKER: I slept fine. I mean, I would like to have slept more. I slept from
about 1:30 until about 7, but that's not unusual when you have a game at noon. You know,
we are all used to night games most of the time and we all are -- our body clocks won't
let us go to sleep at 11 just because we have a game at noon the next day. You know, you
can't go to sleep till you get tired. Once I got tired, I laid down and went to sleep with
no problem. 
 
Q. Larry, can you talk about Cabrera?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Jose has been a dark horse in our own eyes for this season because of
what he did two years ago. Two years ago he came up and pitched very well in pressure
situations and at that time, his velocity was generally in the 90 to 94 range, and he had
the surgery and he wasn't able to pitch much last year and then this year at spring
training he was topping out in the upper 80s and we were hoping that, you know, with more
throwing and continued health, that his velocity would come back and it has. One of the
things about Jose that you have to like a lot is that he's got a lot of poise. He's got a
lot of courage. Some guys go out there in that situation and you could just look at them
and tell that they are nervous and with him, you don't get that sense at all. It just
seems like he's out there to get you out and he's not worried about a thing. I'm sure he
has a lot working on the inside, but as a pitcher, I think you either have to show a
positive emotion in the way that Lima does or else no emotion. You start to show fear, for
me it's like somebody riding a horse. You know, the horse knows if you can't ride and
you're not going to have a very easy time of it, but if you get on there, you know what
you're doing. Even though the horse is much bigger than the man, the man can ride the
horse. Same way it is with a pitcher on the mound. Everyone can see it when a guy is shook
up out there and it's almost the signal to the other team, you know, to go; and Cabrera is
just great that way. He's got great make up. 
 
Q. How difficult is it, Larry, to manage when you're not sure if your main guy in the
bullpen may not be available?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: Well, it's probably not that much more difficult to manage. It might be
more difficult to win, but, you know, what I'm going to do is operate under the assumption
that we don't have him, and I'm going to try to wait through the last couple of innings.
If Shane doesn't go all the way by going left, right, match-ups, trying to piece our way
through it like we did last year when Billy was out and we had some success doing that
when he was out after he got hit in the head by that line drive, and we managed to close
out most of the games when we had a chance and it wasn't any one guy. It was just a
combination of people and that's basically the situation we are in today. If he does get
up in the 8th inning and starts throwing and said he feels fine, then that won't be hard
either. I'll put him in. I don't think it will be harder to manage, but it could be harder
to win. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT