NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
May 26, 2001
Rob Blake
Sean O'Donnell
Joe Sakic
Scott Stevens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you learn anything that might help you against the Devils tonight?
 
 ROB BLAKE: I think the thing we learned that there is no way we can sit back. We are a
team that's real aggressive, almost overaggressive and when we get the puck going and
moving and skatin, that's when we are out our best. No way we can sit on a lead. 
 
Q. Patrick Roy at the top of his game. We saw more evidence in the first period. Does
the confidence of the team go up accordingly when you give him one goal?
 
 ROB BLAKE: Definitely. You know he is back there. You know it's going to take a great
play to beat him. If he sees it coming, he is going to stop it. He has been a wall back
there for us. 
 Q. Suffice it to say, Sean, the pace has been turned up over Pittsburgh. Any cause for
adjustments? 
 
 SEAN O'DONNELL: I know, coming out hard the first ten minutes, I think they had most of
their chances. Now they got a powerplay which I think created some momentum for them. I
think we played well the last five, six minutes of that period. Hopefully come out with
more like that. 
 
Q. You see another former L.A. King, your old captain Rob Blake across the way, does he
become an adversary now? How easy is that to do?
 
 SEAN O'DONNELL: Well, he is definitely an adversary. We have talked couple of times
throughout the Playoffs. One of the things we said before we congratulated each other when
they beat St. Louis and we beat Pittsburgh we said we will talk again, meet with a hands
shake say good luck. If I get a chance I will hit him and he throws that big butt out at
me. 
 JOE SAKIC: I just went down the side and made he made a perfect play. I just skated
into it. I went down. I didn't mean to go 5 hole, but it ended up going 5 hole.  
 
Q. Tough to imagine a better period for you guys. The Devils are really dominated the
way you dominated them in the first.
 
 JOE SAKIC: We had our jump out there for sure. We have just got keep building on that.
A lot of hockey left and we have to make sure we use that momentum and carry it over to
the next period, and keep doing the same things we have been doing.  
 Q. Scott, is this what you expected from Colorado, first time at home, a lot of energy,
a lot of activity? 
 
 SCOTT STEVENS: They skated hard and came at us hard. But we weathered the storm. We
have got to start skating a little bit more ourselves and be a little more aggressive at
times. 
 
Q. You made some changes during the period, different defensive pairings. Will that
continue throughout the second period?
 
 SCOTT STEVENS: I think we will keep the same pairings. It is just a matter of getting
us out there at the right time. They are making short changes out there so it makes it a
little more difficult to get the right matchups.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT