BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2000
Jim Calhoun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH CALHOUN: First thing, I'd like to congratulate St. John's. We've had some
experience of winning the championship, and certainly Mike and the second year, I guess
St. John's -- someone just told me, hadn't won since 1986. Clearly they deserved to win
the championship and did a terrific job. Bootsy was terrific, Postell was terrific. Just
bottom line I thought they were really, really good. From the Connecticut standpoint --
I'd like to extend my congratulations to them. Certainly, on a Saturday night here in New
York City, it's going to be a nice special thing for them. They certainly deserve to win.
They outplayed us. From our standpoint, we weren't physically tired. Mentally, we didn't
do what I thought we would do. I thought for example Bootsy does shoot the ball from
three. We'd given him five, six feet of cushion. Still, even to the end. We went over the
top of -- we were also instead of fade cutting him, bringing him to the corner we were
making him cut back to the middle. We had put in the game plan that wouldn't happen.
Third, we did say the thing that would hurt you the most, couple flukey things happened
with Tony, without Khalid, but still a couple things, the fast break. The weak side man
must rotate back, we didn't get that and quite frankly, during the past four or five games
particularly, the one thing we've done is focus in on what we need to do to win. We may
not have played great, but we seem to have a much better understanding of what we need to
do. I can honestly tell you tonight it appeared like Bootsy does shoot threes, we know
now, after three games. They will fast break us which they did. And we did not stop them.
And I'm not, you know, once again, I don't think there's any excuses. You know, they beat
us, they were the better team, they've three times proven. They did that. But I felt much
different about this particular game than I did the first two. The points off turnovers,
20 to 8, that's your basketball game. We kept them off the glass like we thought we would.
I thought mentally we just didn't stay with what we had to do. The loss of Khalid at
particular points didn't help the offense early, got us in a little bit of a hole. The
bottom line is we didn't defend. At one point they were shooting 63, 64 percent. You're
not going to win with a team like St. John's doing that. We always have a number up there
we're ascribing to, 22, 23, 22, we erased 25 which we didn't get, 23 and 8 is our last
record. We start a new season Sunday with a new schedule. Today was the last game which
we're going to play, which was not going to be assigned to us starting Sunday. Season is
over for us until a new season starts, which is now, the NCAA tournament, hopefully. We'll
see what happens there. 
 
Q. Jim, when you started the second half without Khalid did you have a particular time
you wanted to bring him --
 
 COACH CALHOUN: I had a point total. Anything over 12, we needed to get him back in. You
know, two of the players had freak plays. I don't agree with either of them. They are
freak plays, you have to live with those. He's running up the court, kid trips, another
one is going to catch a pass, guy goes over his back, official says the guy that went over
his back needed a place to land. It was a little different, but it was creative anyways.
It's important to be as creative as you can be in the midst of competition. But I had a
point total in the first half, too, and I thought it was slipping away at eleven. I really
did. I thought we got him back in, got to nine. But it did cost us one foul. In
retrospect, I still maintain Tony just couldn't get by Erick, and what really stymied us
in that last ten minutes of the first half was Barkley locked up Tony and Tony let himself
be locked up. Second half he did a better job but that did not allow us -- we were 27-24,
did not allow us to stay real close in touch. I give Erick a great deal of credit for
doing that. Next time Tony faces as good a guy as Erick defensively, I'm sure he'll go by
him. Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT