NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 9, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you describe your emotions watching Todd's ball?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: A little up a little down, then a lot up. I thought he hit it good
enough. I saw Finley go up. I thought he came down with it so it was a little up, a little
down and then when he was there dejected. It was a lot up and, hey, Todd Pratt, let's just
dedicate a little time, what a guy. Been a big player for us all year long. Every time he
plays, the guys say he will do something big for us; he will do something big. He throws
out the guy first thing and hits a home run in the last inning. The Arizona team all year
handled us. They handled us because they are an outstanding team. Buck just left here.
There is no doubt you know what kind of guy he is. He built that team along with his
coaches and owners and our hats are off to them. They are going to be around for a long
time. They are a great team. 
 
Q. What type of effect did the controversy in the 8th have on the team if any?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I am really not privy -- I don't think I could handle that. Probably
scared the hell out of them because I was coaching third. It was just a long delay and
Mantei showed me something; able to keep his composure after a long delay like that.
Cookie is one -- he is the heartbeat of our team most of the time. He just -- he comes to
work early. He sits on the bench an hour before anybody else gets out there. He watches
every pitch with the intensity of a brain surgeon, and he went out there with his emotion
and they were arguing when I got there, they were heated into it, and some words were
exchanged back and forth. Cookie was called something and blew a gasket, no doubt. 
 
Q. What was he called?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Oh, he just he kind of called him something. 
 
Q. I don't know if it's possible but can you put your overall emotions in words right
now?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: No. I am sorry, this should be good stuff. Let me think here. I can't
put them -- the overall emotion. I can tell you the immediate emotion is one of pride. Is
that an emotion? I think it is. Of guys grinding it out. Heck, we were looking over our
shoulder at Randy Johnson. If they say they weren't I don't think anybody is going to be
telling the truth. We do have a lead and Al pitched a fabulous baseball game. All of a
sudden we don't have a lead; we are able to come back with a big run, a little help but a
big run to tie it then grind it out for the win. I am just really overall proud of the
guys. 
 
Q. When was the last time you literally jumped for joy like that in your baseball life?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Probably in my baseball life not since I was in the Minor Leagues and
experienced that kind of elation, in the real life, you know, when my son was born and
when he did some of those first steps and convinced some dumb banker to give me a loan for
my first house. Those are all kind of -- (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Are you glad you put John Franco in or were you thinking about putting a starter in
at the time?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I have seen that is in vogue and I know it has been done. The New York
Mets bullpen, the guys that I have gone to, got us here. They have pitched an incredible
amount of difficult innings to get wins, to get saves, to keep us alive and give us a
chance to win. I don't think that right now in my mind there is anybody who is a starter
who deserves to be pitching in that one inning and two inning stint anymore than the guys
that I have in the bullpen. 
 
Q. Considering what has happened so far and now, the replacement for one of your best
players winning the game. Do you have a feeling now you got something special going that
can't be stopped?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think we have something special going and I thought that for a long
time. It is a special group of guys. Whether or not it could be stopped, you know it is
going to take a good effort to stop us and the next team we are playing is going to be
playing with, I guess, against some ghosts because they said we were dead, so I don't know
if they have ever played against people who have come back from the grave before. 
 
Q. Did you think Franco had extraordinary stuff when he came in as opposed to last
week?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I thought yesterday he had extraordinary sink on his fastball and
really good stuff and I thought tonight he was aces, yes. Thought he had very good sink.
Hardly threw his changeup, had a good slider, little cutter and good location on his
fastball. 
 
Q. This might not be easy but can you step back from the elation of the moment and look
back objectively on how great a game that was?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I have to do that? It was a really well pitched game by both Anderson
and Leiter and Al Leiter has been huge and today he was excellent. I think that with two
out there in the eighth he might have lost his concentration a little with Ward, walked
him on four and then when Fonzie didn't make the play on Womack's ball I was concerned
that maybe the concentration was at the bottom of the barrel, but he was fabulous. It
really was a well played game overall. 
 
Q. Could you talk about the throw that Mora made from left field?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah, well, you get a lead and you put in your best defense and I have
said a couple of times that Mora is our best defensive outfielder; people have snickered
at me. He is definitely our best bunter and one of our best defensive outfielders if not
the best. He is in there just like a reliever is in there; to save a game. That is what he
did; saved a game with an excellent throw. The guy that caught that throw from him put an
excellent tag on him. He deserves to be up here for as long as he can stand. So why don't
we turn it over to Todd Pratt. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT