NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1995
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   What happened?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I have no clue.  I had much more chances than
he had in the whole match and I had much more opportunities to
finish the match and I just didn't do it and he played very well
in the important points and that is it.

 Q.   You were obviously very upset at some point. Do you think
that interrupted your rhythm?

 MICHAEL STICH:  No, it just cost me the match.  The chair umpire
didn't rule that one backhand down the line, the tiebreaker, it
was clearly catching the line and just didn't have the guts to
call it, but that is the way it goes, and I still kept in there
and I had enough chances to turn it around and just didn't do
it.

 Q.   Would you have like to have played Becker tomorrow?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, sure.

 Q.   Any player or him especially?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Doesn't matter.  I wanted to be in the quarterfinals.


 Q.   Where are you going to go from now Key Biscayne?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah.

 Q.   Tomorrow?

 MICHAEL STICH:  No.  Lots of time.

 Q.   You talked to Becker yesterday.  He told us you talked
to him about the Davis Cup and you have your own-- like you talk
to each other about it.  What do you think you are going to do
--

 MICHAEL STICH:  No comment.

 Q.   After --

 MICHAEL STICH:  I am not going to talk about it.  I don't talk
about the subject.

 JOE LYNCH:  If you want a transcript from Mike, it is two days
ago. . .

 Q.   In between--

 MICHAEL STICH:  Just respect it.  I don't want to talk about
it.

 Q.   Does playing at night make a big difference to you?

 MICHAEL STICH:  It is nicer.  It is not that hot and once you
catch up with the light and a little bit different kind of play,
it is very nice to play at night.  It was a beautiful evening.
 I think it was beautiful conditions to play tennis. 

 Q.   I know you don't want to talk about it, but what do you
say to the American team how their team got up and gave a press
conference?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I just said that Pete and Andre obviously are
playing and that is great for the states.  It is great to have
the best two players on their team and I think it is good.

 JOE LYNCH:  Thank you.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT