U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you think you won that with an ace, kind of surprised that you didn't get that
ace? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No, I thought it was, but I would have -- all of a sudden to finish with
an ace, it's always -- to finish any way is good.  
 
Q. It was one of the days that nothing could distract you, obviously? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I played well, especially in the beginning, and I enjoyed myself,
really. And his game suited me, because, you know, he can't hit me off the court. I can
play with him from the baseline and I found my style to play on hardcourt, mix it up with
coming into the net, staying back, moving pretty well and just one long point we had, I
just tied my back a little bit and I had, like, three games in the second set where I lost
a little bit. I was a little tight, but I was very happy with the way I played.  
 
Q. You're playing with greater confidence now, would you say? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Than when?  
 
Q. Than before. 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: In the other Grand Slams. So it's difficult to play with less confidence
than I did the last couple of Slams. So, as I said, I'm enjoying myself, played really
well, had a great time, two hardcourt tournaments and capable of what I'm playing. I think
I can still play a little bit. I don't put any pressure on me, play round by round and I
won two rounds. Better than last year.  
 
Q. Black next here; Clavet or Black do you know these player? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Yeah, I know them. That's okay for a third round, I wouldn't be too
unhappy.  
 
Q. Can you talk about each of them? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I think Byron is dangerous on hardcourt. I would imagine he's going to
win. I would say Byron Black, but he's a good doubles player. Obviously he's one of the
best doubles in the world and on hardcourt he's dangerous. And Clavet is a claycourter, I
don't think he's that dangerous, but as well, the courts are not that fast, not all of
them, and it's going to be a tough match. We'll have to play one hundred percent and be
ready.  
 
Q. Why have you had so many problems with Grand Slams in the past year? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Why I had so many problems? Tell me, I don't know.  
 
Q. Have you thought about it? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No, there's nothing to think about, you have to accept not playing too
well, maybe I put too much pressure on myself and went in the wrong direction. And you can
certainly try to look for answers, it is not going to help you, you just have to look
forward and think about the next tournament you play and do something a little different
than you did in the past and I'm doing it here. So far, so good.  
 
Q. I know it's only two matches, are you approaching this Slam differently? Did you
come in with a different frame of mind? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Yeah, I expected myself to lose in the first round, so -- no, I won two
rounds, so I'm way over my expectations here. I'm just trying to be more relaxed, having
fun, enjoying myself on the court, off the court. So far it's working well.  
 
Q. Do you use these early rounds or can you use an early round match like today to work
on parts of your game or do you not even take those chances during early round matches? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: You can't take those chances. All those guys can play pretty good and
they're solid tennis players, and as I said, if they played really well, especially in the
first and third set, you know, if you just get too loose, those guys just jump on you.
They take their chance, get a break and all of a sudden you have to come up with good
serving and stuff to even it up. And so you have to just play your game, you have a
strategy when you go on court but I'm not trying to, whatever, try to play good topspin
lobs, I'm just play the point to win.  
 
Q. Playing a two-week tournament on a hardcourt, when does the fatigue factor begin a
-- begin to set in a two-week tournament like this? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No. I think -- I don't think actually has something to do with playing a
lot or being out there in the heat, I think it's just sometimes you make a move and that's
going to be it. It is not like -- I can play four, five hours out there, it is not like
I'm not fit. The muscles start tightening up and you just start getting very intense,
mentally and that's all together coming that -- I think most of the guys are having
problems with the back or with the upper legs and that's when it's going to be very
difficult, and for sure it's going to be more the further you go. But also, when you go to
the quarters or semis or finals, the adrenaline is so high it just pushes you all the way.
So, you shouldn't think about it. Just play and try to prepare as good and stretch and get
a massage and everything.  
 
Q. Michael, at Wimbledon after, I think, Brian Shelton won, he came in and talked about
the negativity that everyone brings to the tennis court, and I don't know if you've seen
that or read it or think about it; but talking about having this lighter attitude here;
did you think that being so hard on yourself would help your tennis and do you now think
it didn't, and when it gets -- when these -- these matches are relatively easy for you, do
you know yet if this new attitude really works and -- I know this is a long question, I'm
sorry. Can you deal with some of that? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Yeah, I don't think I'm bringing any negativity to the tennis court, and
I can't comment on that because I didn't hear it. I made a mistake after Wimbledon when I
lost to him. I walked off the court and I was very upset with myself and I think I made
comments that made people understand what I meant in a different way, coming into the
press conference and the journalist tell me what he said and i react to that. I don't
think I'm negative, I'm just very intense. If I go on the court, I want to win and that's
why I'm number four in the world. If I wouldn't be like that, I wouldn't be up there and
that's what brought me all the success. I have so far. And if you look at all the other
guys, Agassi, Courier, Edberg are all intense on the court and if you call that being
negative to the tennis court, I think that's a wrong feeling.  
 
Q. So we still have the intensity, but the lighter approach -- how do they go together?

 
 MICHAEL STICH: It's just you don't go out there and expect yourself to beat everybody.
Just go out and expect yourself to do the best you can and if you win, it's great. If
somebody on that day is better than you, you have to accept it. And before that -- you
have a first round and you play let's say, like, Shelton at Wimbledon, everybody comes up
and says, that's a good first round, you should win this yourself, and you start to
believe it yourself. So once you start playing badly, you can't understand why you're not
winning the match. So that's the wrong way to do it, you just have to go out there and
say, I have to win, and before I do that, I really have to play good tennis. And once I go
off the court and won the match, I can say I was better than the other guy. But before
it's like 50/50 and you still have to play every point.  
 
Q. Does Bernie Vogts (PH) have your endorsement to continue as coach? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Who?  
 
Q. Bernie Vogts (PH), coach of the German soccer team. 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Yeah, but --  
 
Q. Does he have your endorsement to continue? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Whatever he likes.  
 
Q. I heard you're a big soccer fan. 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I am. I like soccer, but I don't care too much about who is going to
coach or not.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT