FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2000
Bob Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BOB MURPHY: I hit driver and 7-iron about 10 feet and I hit it too easy. Missed it.  
 
 BOB MURPHY: Yeah, good start. I'm sort of back in the mode -- since I've been doing
television again, I'm back in the mode of thinking about playing well on the first round
of a tournament. I slipped out of that last year and started doing my same old bad habit.
You know, I talked about it three or four years ago when I was winning a lot that I
concentrated, really, to try to shoot a good round in the first round. And then when I
started doing television again, that's exactly what I was thinking about: How guys seem to
be satisfied with a 70,71, and yet, somebody is shooting 65, 66; so you need to be there,
too, doing it. I played very steadily today. I'm putting wonderfully. I don't remember
putting any better in my whole career than I did at the U.S. Senior Open, even though I
did not -- I finished about 20th. I drove the ball poorly and put myself in the rough and
really paid for it. But, putted really well. Today was no exception. I started right out,
you know, hitting the ball close and making some putts. Let's see, 1st hole, I put it -- I
hit driver and 7-iron about 12 feet and missed it. Next hole, I hit driver and 8-iron
about a foot and a half and made it. Next hole, I hit driver, 3-wood down in front of the
green and chipped it by about two feet. Made birdie. Next hole, two putts for par. Next
hole, I did something I can't recall, and Jim Albus said the same thing. I drove it, where
somebody's ball impacts in the fairway and the fairways have been a little wet and it
leaves a big pock mark, and my ball is right in the bottom of one of those things. On that
hole, I didn't know what it was going to do. So I just aimed out to the right and I hit a
7-iron and it just ballooned straight up the corner of the green over there, went up on
the green and then dribbled back down; so I made par, which was lucky. Next hole, I hit a
wedge about two feet, made birdie. Next hole, I hit a wedge about eight feet and made
birdie. No. 8, I was very fortunate. I pulled it and put it down the bunker and hit a
wonderful bunker shot, and got it about 10 feet from the hole from where I was, which was
about as good as I could expect, and I made that for par. That was a big swing there.
Bogeyed No. 10. Was in between clubs, and picked the wrong one and hit it about half-fat
and put in the bunker and made bogey. No. 11, two putts for par. 12, I hit a wonderful
6-iron at 12, about 12 feet, I guess, and made that for birdie. 13, the par 5, I knocked
it on the far right-hand side of the green. Two putts for birdie. I was about 40 feet.
Next hole, two putts for par. 16, actually I was off the green. Two putts for par. 17, I
hit it in there about eight, nine feet and made birdie. I hit L-wedge. No. 18, I hit a
pull off the tee and I really thought I hit it in the water, but it landed right at the
corner of the water and it was really hot. I busted it. I hit it as hard as I could hit
it, and the dog-gone thing squirted straight ahead so I had a shot. And that was lucky;
that's what seems to happen in rounds when you're shooting low and under par. But a good
round. I think -- matter of fact, No. 18 green was getting very ground and very hot. I put
my hand on the surface itself, and it's getting quite warm. I think they are leaving them
dry right now, with the idea that rain is on the way. But the golf course is going to get
firmer, and it's going to get faster, and these scores won't be as easy as they were
today. Who made 2 at 14? Fleisher? Well, see that's what happens when you're going right
along. What did he hit in the hole in 4-iron? That's good.  
 
Q. Bruce was saying that even as well as he's played, he still considers Hale the cream
of the crop out here. Do you agree with that, and do you see anybody challenging, Kite,
Watson, anybody challenging him in that this year?
 
 BOB MURPHY: I think that those guys you just named have got to play better, yes. And he
showed that at the U.S. Senior Open. I will tell you, I shot 67 at the Open on Sunday and
I thought that was a pretty good round of golf. And I think Hale and John Jacobs are the
only two that beat me that day. But Hale shot 65-65, back-to-back weekend 65's at a U.S.
Senior Open. Now, the greens were soft. It was very different for an Open. They were soft,
but they were quick, and there was plenty of rough there. So, yeah, when he has his game
on, then he's the guy to beat. But he's also the guy to beat on a better, tougher, golf
course like this one will be if it gets firmer and faster. Then he's the guy to beat,
because he plays so straight off the tee, and you know, does everything else well.
Fleisher, obviously, he's shown us that he has all the tickets to the station, goodness
sakes. He drives it well and putts well. His chipping and whatnot around the greens has
greatly improved from what I remember on the regular tour, and I think that part of his
game, he worked on it a lot about before he came out here, has really helped him.  
 
Q. Bruce still seems to kind of defer to Hale, at least in his public comments, about
respect for Hale. You had a very good PGA TOUR career, but when you came out here, did you
feel inferior in any way to the multiple major champions that you were up against?
 
 BOB MURPHY: I don't think that I felt any different. I mean, those guys, Nicklaus and
Arnie and right on down the line, they beat me for a long time, and I beat them sometimes,
yes. But when we came out here and they were playing, and playing well, then they beat me
again. So I think that's probably the position that Bruce finds himself in. Although, I
think that Bruce has beaten Hale any number of times winning tournaments, but he didn't do
it in a major. So, you know, coming down the line, he didn't hit all the shots. I mean, I
was watching. I was right there, watching everything happen. And any number of times, it
could have gone the other way, but it didn't, because Bruce didn't convert a putt or he
drove it in the rough. As a matter of fact, on 14, when he put it in the rough and he had
to chip out and he almost holed it from the fairway, that could have been the swing right
there. That was such a big swing for Hale, because Hale hit a terrible shot way to the
right. He's got 60 feet across those hills and mound and then down to the hole. Could have
taken him 3 very easily to get up-and-down, but it didn't happen, and he was all right
after that. So I think that Fleisher, he doesn't like to blow his own horn, we know that.
But I think his record, in my opinion, it speaks for himself. And yet, you have to really
play some golf to beat a man shooting 65-65 on the weekend. That's all you need to look at
is those two scores. Just incredible golf. 
 
Q. Irwin said that he's a weekend man and he really doesn't care much for Thursdays. I
guess the 4-under he shot today didn't really bother him, but goes with what you're
saying, he's the weekend-type player? 
 
 BOB MURPHY: Yeah, well, if he shoots a 74, he would have had a different attitude. As a
matter of fact, he wouldn't have you wouldn't have been talking to him, and he wouldn't
have been talking to you, either. It would have been long-distance. But he shot 4-under
and he probably can tell you that he left three or four shots out there. So he feels good
about his position. I mean, that's exactly the same way I feel. I had a good round, yes,
and not leading, but it's good to get off to a good start, it really is. So that's fine.
I've played reasonably well since -- you know, I played the first three weeks in Florida
and I didn't play very well. My knee was bothering me and I finally blew the knee out and
finally had an operation on my knee; and then I had five weeks of television to do in a
row; and then the knee rehabilitated and I played well every week since. I haven't done it
all, but I've played well. 
 
Q. Is it the right knee? 
 
 BOB MURPHY: Yeah, the meniscus. That would have been, what, the first week in March,
first of March? So that was good to get that out of the way. 
 
Q. Arthroscopic? 
 
 BOB MURPHY: Arthroscopic, yeah. It was so bad, trying to play for about three months
there. I could not even squat down to line up a putt, because the old knee was just so
swollen it wouldn't even go. There was something wrong; we knew that. But I didn't have an
MRI done until it finally popped, and Dr. Jobe says it has to come out.  
 
Q. When you went back for the TV, did you just pick it up where you left off? Was it
natural or a little odd coming back?
 
 BOB MURPHY: A little different. I'm in a little different position on NBC than I was at
ESPN. I was the color analyst, if you will; so that's the same job that Johnny Miller has,
and you sort of are able to sit and absorb the whole golf course and what's going on.
Whereas, at NBC, I'm responsible for like four holes a day. And that's a little different
-- a little different job. I'm had a feeling of being out of sync when I first started,
but Tommy Roy. The producer at NBC had to get used to my style, if you will. I'm not a
statistics man, I don't spit out all that of that kind of stuff. I like to talk about the
emotions and what a guy goes through to try to play well, and I try to explain to people
at home how hard the game is, to tell you the truth. I think it comes out all the time if
you watch that this is a very, very difficult game to play. Yes, we shoot wonderful
numbers on Thursdays, but Sundays are always a different thing. The emotions I love. And I
love working for NBC because Tommy Roy shows a lot of pictures of faces and a lot of
reactions, and that tells you a lot. As a matter of fact, I had a sequence on a hole where
a guy hit a shot and knocked it close to the hole and the camera went to his face and I
didn't say anything. And then they said: We're going to 16, and so I said: "On to
16." When we went to commercial break, Johnny Miller says: "That was a lot of
quiet there, why wasn't someone talking?" I said Johnny, "I didn't think I had
to say anything. I mean, you saw what was on the man's face, and how much he appreciated
that shot. That tells you a lot." That's what you see when you watch golf. You don't
hear somebody rambling in your ear all the time. No, I've enjoyed it and it's a good break
for me to not be playing golf all the time. I suffered that a bit,
up-against-the-wall-stuff last year; and I resigned from the policy board because that was
bothering me, and I feel better about that, not having all those responsibilities, and can
go play golf and make some putts.  
 
Q. Will you do the Women's Open next week? 
 
 BOB MURPHY: No.  
 
Q. We're going to be there, but you won't be there. Dick will be heartbroken.
 
 BOB MURPHY: Well, I will not be heartbroken, because I'm going to play golf, see.  
 
Q. Can you expand on the Open conversation about how doing TV has helped you shoot your
66 again? Did it happen last year when you were doing TV?
 
 BOB MURPHY: It happened actually when I first started playing the SENIOR TOUR. I talked
at length, as did Jim Colbert, about coming out of television and back on to the ground
and playing golf and doing television. Not only do you realize, but you talk about how
many mistakes a guy makes in the course of a golf tournament; yet when you tune in on
Sunday afternoon, there he is. You don't have any idea the road he's traveled, and there
he is on Sunday afternoon, but he's hit seven of the worst shots you ever saw, got it
up-and-down on the 12 bunkers and he's done a lot of stuff to get there. And so I realized
that it's okay to make mistakes. And, you know, I looked up patience in an Irish
dictionary; wasn't in there. Well, I'm trying to be a lot more patient with myself when I
make mistakes, and television has shown me that's exactly what happens. The best players
are very patient. So I try to bring that with me when I go out, and sort of give yourself
a lesson type of feel. You know, I give guys putting lessons all the time and sometime I'm
putting poorly and I say to myself: "Now, all right, if you were giving me a lesson,
what would you tell me"? That's the kind of thing you're doing is just trying to keep
your brain. It's mind games, isn't it? Fleisher has worked with a sports psychologist and
whatnot, as I have with Debra Graham, and it really helps. It's an affirmation of the fact
that if you're thinking well, you're probably going to play well, and you will recover
from a lot of mistakes you make, by continuing to think about where you need to go. Now
that you're in the junk over here, what you've got to do next. 
 
Q. When do you go back to TV?
 
 BOB MURPHY: I do the Presidents Cup next.  
 
Q. You've got a lot of golf to play then?
 
 BOB MURPHY: Yeah, I'm going to -- I'm planning on playing about 11 or 12 tournaments
between here and the end of the year. I'm going to see you a lot of times.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT