U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2000
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM KITE: I am happy, yeah. I could be happier, but I am very happy with the score.
5-under par is a good score on this golf course. I don't think that any of us anticipated
this golf course would give up these kind of scores prior to the two rain storms that they
had out here, and we are just taking advantage of a golf course that is a wonderful golf
course, and it is giving up a lot more low numbers and birdies than we ever envisioned.
But I played well. I hit the ball quite nicely. A couple of errant shots; missed a couple
of fairways, and they both cost me. That is a little disappointing. But all and all,
5-under is a good score. 
 
 TOM KITE: Got off to a good, fast start. Birdied 2, 3, 4. Hit a 9-iron on No. 2 about a
foot. Hit on 3 -- I hit 8-iron about five feet, six feet. And hit 7-iron about 6 feet on
4. That was a nice start. Bogeyed No. 7. Hit driver, blocked it way right under the trees.
Just all I can do is just chip out, and chipped it kind of through the fairway. Had 80
yards, and hit that up there about twelve feet, and missed that putt. Came back with a
birdie on the next hole. Hit sand wedge in there six inches or so, and then hit 6-iron on
No. 9 about probably 18 feet; made that. That was the first long putt that I made all day,
which was nice. Birdied No. 11, hit a really good 4-iron in there just left of the pin
about 15 feet. And made that putt for birdie. Then birdied No. 13, hit 6-iron -- excuse
me, hit 7-iron about maybe 15 feet again. A little less, maybe. And made that. Then
bogeyed No. 16. I hit it -- hit driver. Again, blocked it to the right. Those were the two
bad drives that I had all day. And it looked like it was just going to catch the edge of
the bunker and be in not too bad a shape. But it missed the bunker to the right, kicked
hard right under a tree. And I tried to play a little cut -- shut out of there out of the
rough. Caught a branch coming out, fell into -- across a bunker that is about 30 yards
short of the green. Tried to play a little pitch-and-run back in there to try to get it
back to the hole, but aimed it pretty well. Ended up short. 2-putted from 30 feet --
(inaudible). Parred 17, 18. Had two makeable opportunities on those last two holes, but
misread the one on 17, and left the one on 18 hanging on the front edge. 
 
 TOM KITE: I don't know whether it is feeding off of one another, or just, you know, the
necessity of trying to hang in there. You know that the scores are going to be low. I
mean, I felt great. I hadn't -- I didn't see the scoreboard until the -- didn't really
look at a scoreboard all day until the 6th hole, and I am 3-under par through 4 and
thinking: All right, maybe I will pick up a little ground. Step up on the 6th green, and I
haven't gained a thing on anybody. And pretty lucky, I guess, to be holding my own. Then
Bruce comes along through 6, and I think he was 4-under par through 6. So was 3-under at
that point and had lost a shot, I think. So from that point on, it was: Let's really get
something. You are going to have to make a lot of birdies. And we all did. 
 
Q. Does it take anything away from an Open when the scores are this low? Customarily,
even par or close to it is --
 
 TOM KITE: I think it is a little surprise. Again, this is a heck of a golf course; and
I think all the players in the field are just shocked at how low it is. It is all because
of the rain storms we had earlier in the week. I really didn't believe that it would ever
go like this. I don't know whether it takes away from the Open Championship. I would hope
that it -- people don't think so, and hope that you guys don't think so; because you look
at the leaderboard, and you got guys that are playing very well up on that board. Hale is
playing great. Bruce is playing great. I am playing well. A number of other guys are
playing some super golf. So I don't know that it is affecting the results one way or the
other. I know the USGA -- yeah, I guarantee you they don't like it (laughter). I can only
anticipate -- I mean the pin placements were again very, very difficult today. But the
guys are playing so well. The golf course is in such perfect shape. The fairways are so
immaculate to play off of. And if you are driving the ball well, you have got that good
lie playing into a green that is holding, and you are hitting it in there fairly close.
Yeah, there will be a few times that you will get on the wrong side of the hole where you
don't really have a chance to make a putt even if it's from 3, 4, 5 feet. But a lot of
times you will get it in there and you will be able to make a few. 
 
 TOM KITE: You have to talk to Tom Meeks. Tom Meeks is really ticked off right now. I
can guarantee you. 
 
Q. You and Bruce and Hale combined for 22 birdies today. Do you expect it is going to
be like that tomorrow?
 
 TOM KITE: 22 birdies..... Wow. I hate to say that I expect it to happen like that
tomorrow, because, again, I didn't expect it to happen -- I haven't expected it any day,
because, again, I have so much respect for this golf course and the pin placements on it.
But, you know, when I got off to that start and think that I am picking up some ground,
then look up at the board and I'm just holding my own, yeah, I guess the scores are
probably going to go low again tomorrow unless the greens dry out significantly. I know
they are going to be rolling the living daylights out of those things, trying to squeeze
every drop of moisture out of them that they can. It really is a shame. I agree with you,
for an Open Championship, I would love to see the scores a little bit higher. But the golf
course was perfect earlier in the week, and it is just a shame that the rains came. 
 
Q. Can you talk about those two drives that went astray?
 
 TOM KITE: Yeah. 7 was just a miscommunication between Mike and I. I had driven it on
that hole, you know, everyday so far. But we, in the practice round, we had kind of talked
about possibly that was a lay-up hole, because the fairway kind of narrows down there. And
I felt good about the driver and the way I was driving it. I hit it perfect off of every
tee prior to that time. And I stepped up there and Mike kind of -- you know, you think you
might want to hit a little less club. I was just -- I never made up my mind. I never
committed to the shot, and just made a god-awful swing. I can't really say it was a swing
flaw. It was a mental flaw. The one on 16, you know, I just hung back a little bit on the
thing. I went -- when I am swinging well, I really get up to my left side. And I really
didn't do it quite there on 16. 
 
Q. Not suggesting this is a two-man race, because it isn't. But is it particularly
tough to play against Hale? Like what do you think, you know, you have probably had many
duels and showdowns with him. He is a particularly tough guy to be going into Sunday with
him playing in your twosome and right on your heels.
 
 TOM KITE: Well, he won't be playing in my twosome. 
 
Q. For Bruce?
 
 TOM KITE: I think I will be playing with Hubert. 
 
Q. No, I meant for Bruce's perspective.
 
 TOM KITE: Well, you know, the way Bruce is playing, I think that is a two-sided road. I
think it is going to be difficult -- as difficult for Hale to play -- Hale to play were
Bruce, as it is for Bruce to play with Hale. Doesn't seem like they are having much
difficulty with it either way. They are both playing very well, no matter who they play
with. We know that -- golly, I hate to even say just all three, but you know that Bruce is
going to play well. You know Hale is going to play well. And I am hoping that I play well
tomorrow. 
 
Q. How important do you think it will be to make up some of that ground early on in the
course in the front nine? Seems like a lot of those guys are playing the first nine holes
particularly well as opposed to the back nine holes.
 
 TOM KITE: Yeah. The front nine is easier because the greens are a little flatter. There
are some very severe greens on the back nine -- 11, 15, 16, in particular. And that makes
it a little bit more -- and 17 also. Makes it a little bit more difficult to score on the
back side than it does on the front. So there will be some good scores shot on the front,
and I would think I would need to shoot one. 
 
Q. Bruce has played so well since he turned 50. Why didn't this happen on the PGA TOUR?
 
 TOM KITE: I don't know. I mean, you would have to ask Bruce. And I am not sure he would
even have a clue. But I was just saying up there when I did a thing for NBC that I think
you really have to give him all the credit and kudos, because he has gone through, at
times, a very trying career on the PGA TOUR. And to be able to be that patient and
persistent and to hang in there to the point that his game finally matured, you know, when
a lot of guys were maturing much earlier than that, you know, you have to hand it to him.
Because a lot of guys, with that type of career, went on to other things. And I think you
really have to give him credit. What happened? Who knows. I mean, there is such fine lines
in this game, you know. He might not even be able to put his finger on it. But certainly
just suffice to say, he is one heck of a player right now. 
 
Q. Is there a frustration factor you have to fight through when you are rolling in
birdies, but you are seeing you are gaining no ground?
 
 TOM KITE: I wouldn't say frustration. Golly, the shots that were being played and the
activity that was going on and the enthusiasm of the crowd, golly, I mean, this -- the
people have just been so supportive and so enthusiastic out there and I think they really
appreciated the shots that were being played. I think a lot of them probably have had the
opportunity to play this golf course and I think know how difficult it is. I think they
are probably as amazed as we are with the scores that are being shot, but no, I wouldn't
say frustrating because again, I am very pleased with that score of 5-under. Yeah, I wish
it had picked up ground instead of losing some ground, but, you know, I have to be proud
of that score. 
 
Q. Hale seemed to indicate that it would be easier for him tomorrow because he has been
there and in this kind of situation. Do you see that also that it will be easier for you
than what maybe Bruce will be going through?
 
 TOM KITE: You can sit there and play those games all you want to, but the reality of it
is that whether you have been there or haven't been there, you are still going to have to
go out and perform tomorrow. I don't know that it -- oh, yeah, it gets a little easier the
more times you have been there, but it doesn't guarantee that you are going to shoot a
great score the last day. Whoever wins tomorrow is going to go low. And they will do it. 
 
Q. 1992 Pebble, last day you persevered in brutal conditions. Would you prefer brutal
or easy?
 
 TOM KITE: I tend to play better on the really, really difficult golf courses and again,
I'd put this in that category. This is one of the more difficult golf courses that we play
on the SENIOR TOUR. You still have to hit an awful lot of good shots. Fairway is tight.
Rough is up. If you don't hit good shots, you are going to be penalized. This is certainly
not as difficult as Pebble Beach, but again, it is a nice golf course. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT