MIAMI DOLPHINS PRESS CONFERENCE
March 13, 2000
Dan Marino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
DAN MARINO: Hello, everybody. I want to thank you all for coming. After 17 years I
would like to announce my retirement from the Miami Dolphins. After playing the game of
football for most of my life, this was an extremely difficult decision. But I know that I
had made the right decision for me and my family. I am very proud of the success that we
have had as a team for 17 years as well as all my individual accomplishments. Not many
people have an opportunity to spend 17 years of their life doing what they truly love to
do. And I stand here before you today, I can say that I had been blessed with a career
greater than I could have ever imagined. I am extremely proud of the fact that I was able
to play 17 years for the Miami Dolphins. And I am going to miss it. I am going to miss
everything about it. I am going to police the relationships with the players. I am going
to miss the fans. I am going to miss the great friends that I have made over this time. I
am going to miss all the good times that we have had together. But most of all, I am going
to miss Sunday afternoons. There are not many situations in life that can compare to the
emotions, the competition and the preparation that go into a football game. It is a great
game. I have been blessed over the years to have great family and support from them and
today they are here. My mother and dad are here. I want to thank them for everything over
the years, the support that they have given me and it is special because through my whole
career ever since I have been a little boy, they have been able to watch every game that I
played. There is not many guys that can say that. To my dad, he is the best coach I have
ever had. Thank you, both. To my wife, Claire, we have been through this 16 years
together. We have had a lot of ups and downs, but we have accomplished a lot of things.
You have always been by my side. You are an incredible mother and you are my best friend.
Thanks. We have five fabulous children, Michael, Dan, Joey is just smiling, what, Joe,
this is not easy, Joe. Is Ally and Niki, guys I was always hopeful that I would play long
enough for them to see me play the game that I love and they were able to do that and I
hope that always have fabulous memories of me being a Miami Dolphin. Thanks, guys. There
are so many people that I would like to thank, starting with the Robbie family. I want to
thank the late Joe Robbie and his son, Tim, for giving me the opportunity to play here and
a special thanks to the Huizenga family, Wayne and Marty, you have always been very
supportive and it was an honor to have been a part of your football team, but most
importantly, I want to thank you for your friendship. I am honored that Coach Shula is
here today. Coach, not only have you been a tremendous impact on my career, but you have
taught me how to be a true professional. I am very proud of the fact that we were able to
win more games than any other coach/quarterback combination in the history of football.
Thank you to all the coaches that I have worked with over the years and all of the great
players. To the Dolphins staff, the people that in the building here that you see each and
every day; to our team president, Eddie Jones, thank you, to the guys that work and help
the players with what they are doing each and everyday; the equipment staff, Tony Egues,
Charlie, Joey, guys that are important to the players; a guy that is not here anymore is
Bobby Monica, he is a friend. Trainers, guys that take care of me, getting me in shape,
try to make me the players that I am, Ryan Vermillion, Troy Maurer, Brad Roll is here and
John Gamble, thank you. And the Public Relations staff, Harvey Green has been great, 11
years I have worked with Harvey. Fudge Browne, Community Relations, thank you, Fudge.
There is one person that is kind of unique, our video man Dave Hack, he is the only person
that has seen every touchdown pass that I have ever thrown. I thought that was kind of
neat. I have played with so many different players over the years and thrown touchdown
passes to 20 or 51 different players, but there were some special players in my career
that I would like to acknowledge. When I started out here with the Miami Dolphins, I had a
great group of receivers, Mark Duper, Mark Clayton, Nat Moore, Jim Jensen, Jimmy Cefalo,
but there will always be a special place in my heart for Duper and Clayton. They caught
more touchdown passes than anybody that I have ever played with. As they have always said,
they made me look good; they made me a star. (laughter). Don Strock, thanks for helping me
when I was a young quarterback. Thanks to Dwight Stephenson who was the most incredible
leader on the field. He is a Hall-of-Fame player as well as a Hall-of-Fame person. Thank
you, Dwight, and more recently to Richmond Webb who was on my left side and taken care of
me for so many years and to probably the toughest football player I have played with O.J.
McDuffie. Thanks to all of you guys, you have made life easy for me. Some special friends
that are here Marvin Demoff, we have been through a lot this past month. I want to thank
Marvin for coming from Los Angeles. Another person Ralph Stringer who has helped me a lot
in my community work here. I want to thank him. I want to thank the members of the media
for covering me throughout my career and supporting a lot of things that I do
charitablewise. I have some close friends that have done a lot of work with me and I
appreciate that. Finally, to the Dolphin fans. It has been an honor to play here in front
of great and supportive fans. Together we have shared many memories. I feel that I have
always had a special relationship with Dolphin fans everywhere. I thank you for being
behind me throughout my career. I hope you have enjoyed these 17 years as much as I have.
I want to thank everybody in the organization, all the players I have ever played with, my
family and for the media coming out here today. It has been great. Thank you very much.
WAYNE HUIZENGA: Danny, I know that I speak for all your fans when I say that we will
miss you on the field. To put it simply, Danny, nobody did it better than you. You are the
greatest quarterback ever, holding countless records including over 61 thousand yards
passing, which is about 34 miles, or approximately the distance from here to Palm Beach.
And you your 420 touchdown passes is a record that will probably never be broken. I know
that is the one that you are the most proud of because it directly correlates to putting
points on the board and winning. But records alone don't fully measure your contributions
that you have played more games as a Dolphin than anyone in team history. Your
dependability and your durability guaranteed that your teammates could and would count on
you each and every week. You were a team leader and one of the toughest competitors the
game has ever known. Your only concern was winning and everything else, records, and
personal statistics didn't matter. I remember after a loss, I walked in the locker room
and said to you, Danny, you played a great game. You said, it doesn't matter, we didn't
win. Well, it is no wonder that your teammates looked up to you for leadership. And while
it is hard to hear that you are retiring, it only seems proper that you are doing so as a
Dolphin. You spent your entire career here. And I can't think of any athlete who is more
identifiable with his team and his community than you - Dolphin fans and throughout South
Florida, I know I speak for every one of your fans not only here, but around the country.
The greatest disappointment that I have as a team owner and as a long time Dolphin fan, is
that you never won the Super Bowl. There is no one more deserving of winning that
Championship than you and I just wish that we could have gotten that for you. But just
because you didn't win a Super Bowl doesn't mean that you are not a champion because we
all know otherwise. Especially in the light of all that you have done for the South
Florida community - you established the Dan Marino Foundation which was created to benefit
children's charities in this area and you led the way to build the Miami Childrens Dan
Marino Center will benefit so many young children with chronic diseases. Whether it is a
countless make-a-wish, promises that you fulfilled, or the many other charitable causes
you have championed, you have always been there for this community and for that, we thank
you very much. It is only fitting, Danny, that you were selected as the NFL
Man-of-the-Year, the highest off-field honor that the NFL bestows for all of your
community and charity work. You have always conducted yourself with class and you have
served as a role model for children and adults alike. You have followed those same
principles in your private life as well and above all you have always been an outstanding
family man to your fantastic wife, Claire; to your five children and to your parents, you
never forgot your roots and no matter how important football was to you, your family
always came first. I consider myself fortunate that I have gotten to know Claire and the
kids, too, and I want to thank them for the support that they have given you. Yet with
everything you had going on, you still found time to have a well-rounded life. You have
become an accomplished golfer. I don't know anyone that can hit the ball any farther than
you, Danny. Your acting debut in Ace Ventura was, well, shall we say it was memorable and
you appeared in a Hootie and the Blowfish music video called: Only want to be with you.
Obviously, you were thinking of the Dolphins at that time. And, Dan, because you have
meant so much to this community and this team, there is really no way that we can thank
what you have done over the last 17 years. But we can try. We have discussed the number of
ways to express our appreciation and we will talk to you in the coming weeks about the
proper ways to recognize your many contributions. However, I can say right now, that no
Dolphin will ever wear the No. 13 again. By the way, your timing has always been
impeccable because today is the 13th of the month. We will retire No. 13 forever and you
will be inducted into the Dolphin honor role at halftime of our first regular season game
at home this year. We will name a street after you at the stadium and, by the way, it just
might pass by the new statue that will be erected there in your honor. We are also
planning many other activities to honor you for your many accomplishments throughout your
career. We also know that so many of your fans want to express their appreciation for all
that you have meant to them and so we will hold a huge, and I mean huge, special ceremony
before the start of the season that will be open to the public to celebrate your career.
Finally, I know that I speak for all Dolphins everywhere when I say that we are also
looking forward to watching you make the trip to Canton to be inducted into the Pro Hall
of Fame. It is an honor that no one deserves more. Danny, I consider myself privileged to
have watched you play and I feel very, very fortunate that you are my friend. You have
brought honor to yourself, your family, your team and your community. I know I speak for
Dolphin fans everywhere who just want to say thank you so very, very much for everything
you have done,.
DAN MARINO: Wow. Thank you, Wayne. I guess we are going to open it up for question and
answers. Not any tough ones, please.

Q. In your 17-year career, any one moment, one game, one play that stands out?

DAN MARINO: Well, it is hard for one play to make a difference in 17 years of playing
the NFL. It is hard to pick one play, but I think there was a touchdown pass that I threw
to Mark Duper that helped us get into the Super Bowl, Orange Bowl in 1984, something that
I talked about preparing going to the week for playing a championship game and it worked
perfect all week in practice and it worked perfect in the game. When those things happen,
it is very special. But it is hard to pick one.

Q. Why did you decide to retire? Was it family, physical?

DAN MARINO: That is a good question. Boy, I really struggled with this. This has been
the toughest month of my life as far as dealing with playing football or retiring. After
the season I pretty much thought that I was not going to play anymore and I felt that way
for a while and I think it was because of the physical aspects of the game, I just -- it
kept coming back to how my legs felt during last season going through the neck injury; not
knowing whether I was going to be able to throw the football, and family reasons also, but
Claire, I mean and the kids, they were great. They wanted me to play, be honest with you.
Really, it was my decision - family decision and a health decision.

Q. Can you understand the great sense of loss from the community's standpoint?

DAN MARINO: I am not sure that I know that. I have a sense of loss that is huge right
now because I know that I am not going to be out there playing anymore and that is a huge
loss for me and I know that the fans of the Dolphins, it is a huge loss for them and I
appreciate that. All having a good time? This will be a good, positive day.

Q. Talk about your -- unusual in sports today to find one guy start and finish his
career with one team. You were able to do that. Talk about that significance.

DAN MARINO: Well, there is no doubt that was a factor in some of my decisions in not
playing anymore. In this day and age, playing 17 years for one team is something very
special and like I said earlier, I am very, very proud of it. There is not many players
that get that opportunity these days and I am glad I did.

Q. I wonder if you could just set the record straight, how close it really got with you
and the Vikings and how seriously you were taking that offer?

DAN MARINO: Any time you play football for, you know, I think I have been playing since
I have been eight years old, a little kid playing professionally, as long as I have, you
get excited when a coach calls you and Denny Green called - he is a very persuasive guy -
and be honest with you, they have some outstanding receivers, guys that I would have loved
to throw to. I was excited about it. But the emotional swings that I had back and forth in
those weeks or so that we had meetings and we discussed my possibility of going to the
Vikings was incredible. I considered it seriously. There was times I told Claire we were
going and two hours later I said no, I don't think I can go. I mean, it is the toughest
thing that I kind of had to deal with professionally in my life.

Q. Did you feel you had a chance to return to the Dolphins and did you weigh it heavily
on whether you would --

DAN MARINO: I could have, but I think that, you know, the circumstances last year and
the things that -- I felt that I probably wouldn't be a Dolphin after the last game and
not only because of playing here 17 years, but I think just the situation, the new coach
and Dave is here and just thought I probably wouldn't be playing for the Dolphins. In
fact, probably wouldn't be playing anywhere. Until after I think it was two weeks ago or
so, I was -- my mind was made up to retire.

Q. How difficult was it to come to this decision without ever having won a Super Bowl?
I know obviously that -- 

DAN MARINO: That was the burning desire. Every time I talked to Dennis Green or any of
the other coaches around the League, that is what I play for. That was the only reason
really to continue to play - did I feel that I was going to have a chance to win a Super
Bowl, and that has been a dream of mine my whole career and I am not going to have that
chance. But it does not take away from what I have done personally. I just -- I think that
I wanted to know what it felt like as a player to win a Super Bowl and any time you have a
chance maybe to get that, you are going to want to play.

Q. Can you just take us back all the way to the beginning and recall the first time you
ever picked up a football, the first time you ever threw a football and what was it about
the game that made you fall in love with it?

DAN MARINO: Well, Mike, I can throw it ever since I could remember. (laughs) It's been
a long time throwing a football. I played early for the Catholic grade school that I grew
up right across the street in Pittsburgh, played there, and had some great games. The
field was right down the street from my house. I remember we would go to church and go to
mass in full dress uniform before we went to the field to play. But the one memory I
always remember was how fortunate I was to have a father that was there that can spend
time with me every day and my dad is the one that taught me how to throw a football and I
mentioned earlier how he was the best coach that I have ever had, not only in some
fundamentals of the game, but in life.

Q. Coach Shula talked about when he first retired, that first Sunday is so tough. How
tough do you think it will be for you?

DAN MARINO: I think it is going to be extremely tough. It has been tough the last month
just thinking about it. I have had discussions with other players, friends of mine that
have been through this same thing, and they say that it really never leaves you. After
time, it does go away, but you always feel that you can play and the sensation that you
get and the excitement, it never goes away.

Q. Have you thought about what options you are looking at in terms of life after
football?

DAN MARINO: Sure, there is a lot of options. I think really what I want to do -- I have
had plenty of business opportunities that are presented me. I am going to need some time
to sit back and think about what I want to do; talk with the family, see what I want to
do. I always thought maybe I would want to do television. I am not sure about that. Get
into business personally. The one thing, for sure, I will be able to take control of my
life a little more, so I am going to look at a lot of different options.

Q. Could one of those options be a possibility in the front office in the Dolphins?

DAN MARINO: Hey, that -- some day that might be something that I would love to do. But
right now, I don't think I could -- would consider that. I think it is something that
would be fun. I mean, to see what Michael Jordan is doing, I know it's probably a lot of
work for him, but I am sure it is something that he really enjoys. That could be fun.

Q. You talked about how your emotions went back and forth after the Vikings made their
offer. Can you talk about when you sort of finally came to grips with your decision, what
that moment was, where you were, what you were thinking?

DAN MARINO: It was funny, yeah, I -- personally I went back and forth a lot with the
thought of continuing playing football just because it is what I do. I have done it my
whole life. I guess it was Thursday morning in my kitchen sitting around with Claire, I
called my dad over and my mom. I told them it is time, it is time for me to retire. It
wasn't a big deal or anything. We just kind of decided that and went on with the rest of
the day. I believe that is when it was; wasn't it?

Q. Two things. First of all, talk a little bit about what --

DAN MARINO: Flew all the way down here from Pittsburgh?

Q. That is right.

DAN MARINO: Thanks.

Q. That is why I am going to ask you a Pittsburgh question. How much of the Pittsburgh
attitude, the way you approached the game, the way people in Pittsburgh approach sports in
general?

DAN MARINO: There is no doubt growing up in a competitive area where I grew up, I mean,
when I was a kid sometimes the most competitive games I played were in the neighborhood in
the street, the street games. It is a great city to grow up in. It's an area that just
loves football, high school football there, is as good as it gets anywhere. I will always
have ties, relationships in that city. It is very special to me. 

Q. Speaking about Pittsburgh, now that you retired, maybe some day, did you ever think
about going back to live in Pittsburgh?

DAN MARINO: Do I feel like going back to live in Pittsburgh? You never know what is
going to happen. I like the beach too, though.

Q. After being in football for so long, it is obviously in your system. Any thought
given to coaching, perhaps a quarterback's coach or whatever?

DAN MARINO: No, there is no way I can coach the guys that play today, no way. (laughs).

Q. Dan, great athletes sometimes unretire and four month from now or five months from
now, when training camp starts and your body has had five months of rest, is there the
possibility that quarterback goes down with an injury, that you can get that call and you
could be back playing football in 2000?

DAN MARINO: If someone called I would feel the same way that I did when Dennis Green
called me about playing. I mean, you get those juices flowing, and that is just part of
what makes good players good players, but I will not play football again.

Q. You talked about how difficult the last month has been. Do you think that you were
treated fairly and well by the Dolphins organization? 

DAN MARINO: There is no doubt that I have and I always have been. Last month has been
kind of difficult and I think sometimes there is a lot of things that are written in the
press that might not necessarily be true. But there is things, the Dolphins have done for
me over the years and within the last months that have been incredible. I have been
treated great here. I have no regrets at all.

Q. Would you have been more inclined to continue your career if you could have stayed
closer to home and gotten a shot, say, with Tampa Bay?

DAN MARINO: You know what, I don't -- I think it comes down to a football decision and
a health decision. It really didn't come down to how close a team was or how close a team
is to my house in Weston. I don't think it comes down to that. It comes down to -- for me,
it came down to a physical decision an a family decision.

Q. Obviously no mention of Jimmy Johnson. Was that difficult?

DAN MARINO: I would just have to say that our relationship was up and down at times and
Coach Johnson, we had some great, great days together and some fun times and sometimes I
wasn't very happy here while he was coaching and that is just being honest. Thank you
guys, I appreciate it. I guess we are going to do some individual things. Thank you so
much. (applause.)

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT