COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1996
Andreas Barth
Daniel Beauvois
Axel Meyer-Wolden
Wilfred Spronk
Brian Tobin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, welcome for our closing press
conference. This is the seventh Compaq Grand Slam Cup here at the Olympiahalle here in
Munich. Before the defending champion Goran Ivanisevic and Boris Becker start playing the
final today, it is my pleasure to introduce again those who are closely linked to this
tournament, its organization, and everything surrounding the players and so on. Dr. Axel
Meyer-Wolden - I do not have to introduce him. Mr. Brian Tobin, the ITF president. We have
Daniel Beauvois, the managing director of ISPR. Again, Mr. Andreas Barth, senior vice
president and general manager of our title sponsor Compaq. And, again, with us Mr. Wilfred
Spronk, managing director of the Olympiapark Company. Could I ask Daniel Beauvois to give
a statement from the point of view of the marketing and organizing company. 
 DANIEL BEAUVOIS: Thank you, Mr. Lubenoff. Being the marketing company, we entered this
tournament with only one unknown factor; that was the number of tickets sold. At our
opening press conference, I told you that we were very satisfied, indeed, with the
marketing of our tournament, with five new sponsors. Escada, SKL, Telly D1, Rado and
Generali. As far as the television marketing is concerned, we had a very successful
tournament. We are still having with today's final live in 153 countries worldwide. The
ticket sales were on the whole comparable to last year. On the whole, we are going to have
64,150 tickets sold over six days, which makes 250 tickets less than last year. So, the
result is comparable. We are satisfied with it. Now, of course, we are also satisfied with
the way the tournament has been able to establish itself. Of course, we had to struggle
with a number of players cancelling, you know that. But, a final with the defending title
holder and the world champion runnerup playing is sort of a dream final, isn't it? This is
why I'm very satisfied. I'm looking forward to this final and hope it's going to be an
exciting one. Of course, a problem for us is to have only ten months now until the eighth
Compaq Grand Slam Cup because, as you know, it's taking place between the 23rd and 28th of
September, which makes our preparation time a bit short. It used to be a tradition here to
have it in this preChristmas period. It's going to be a bit more tight for my staff and
myself, and certainly no summer holiday, but this is how it goes. This is only once
between the seventh and the eighth Grand Slam Cup; then, again, we are going to have 12
months to prepare this tournament. I'm already looking forward to seeing you again in
September of next year. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you. Could I ask the chairman to address the audience. Dr.
Meyer-Wolden. 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: I am pleased to say that the seventh Grand Slam Cup, Compaq Grand
Slam Cup, is ending the way it ends. We have seen some excellent tennis. We are going to
have a very interesting final. Of course, I heard all the criticism that you made in your
media to this tournament for more than seven years. I have got used to criticism and I
accept this. I think it's fair enough, only I would be very obliged if you could apply a
couple of objective criteria in making your criticism because, as you know, the world of
tennis isn't that simple anymore. It's much more complex. You know, there are many
tournaments today that used to be important tournaments, and they simply don't exist
anymore. Could I mention Sidney, Tokyo, Stockholm, Amsterdam. Now, in very general terms,
tennis is facing a difficult period right now. I can mention that in its seventh year,
this tournament continues to feature figures that are really model figures in the world of
tennis, a hall almost sold for six days every day, to launch a tournament the first day,
we were booked out, the second day, too, at 1 o'clock in the afternoon, right in the
middle of the week. These are objective criteria that you can't discuss away. Of course,
at the end of the year, sometimes we have difficulties with players, we know abundantly
and we have been obliged to accept this as being normal. It is not just our tournament.
Every tournament worldwide has to struggle. Those who know and follow tennis and have been
doing so for years, they know how difficult it is. You just think of Bercy, the first and
second round, or all the top seeds were out. If you know the world of tennis, you know
somebody like Krajicek had his difficulties after Wimbledon to show any further good
performance. And, you know that Andre Agassi has been struggling with a lot of problems
also in Hannover. This tournament is really not an exception. It's only confirming the
rule. Our system is, as you know, the 16 best players of the four Grand Slam tournaments
are automatically qualifying for this tournament and are then invited. They are not
obliged to come. It's an invitation to the players qualified as opposed to the ATP Finals.
So they come on their own free will. When the US Open finished, the qualification is done.
In October, the players can then commit themselves to this tournament. At the end of the
year, it's not easy to handle. It brings difficulties. We have to cope with these. But
they are not symptomatic for this tournament. If you carry on writing that this is a pure
exhibition tournament, I would say you don't know what an exhibition tournament is. This
tournament is based on points players earned at the four most important tournaments of the
world. This opens their right to play in this tournament. Those who play in this
tournament have, the vast majority of them, we can't generalize, but the vast majority
have given their performance. We have been able to see great matches here. I for one
believe that if one player or two do not show the commitment expected at this tournament,
you should also consider some excuse for them because it has been a long year, indeed, of
tennis. Of course, we can't get into the playing a round robin system again. It's a
knock-out system. And, if they fail, it's over. There can be a bad day for players. You
may remember when Boris Becker played this tournament the first time, he went out in the
first round; second time, the second round. Now, the third time he went out in the semis.
Now we have him in the final. This does not mean that over the years - and you know how
close I feel to Boris - that he didn't do his best. Although, people would write that he
didn't take the tournament seriously. I think the contrary is true. And, I'd be very
obliged if you could cover what players say about the tournament. These difficulties,
considering all this at the end of the year, the four Grand Slam tournaments, consulting
with myself, have decided to move it closer to the last Grand Slam tournament, the US
Open, which means that as of next year, we are going to be playing in the fourth week of
September. Now, if there is an additional effect or consequence, it's the first
Oktoberfest week in Munich which might make it more easy to design the tournament, to give
it a new shape. I can only promise that we're going to do everything possible to give you
a very pleasant and good week in Munich. Thank you, very much for your presence this week. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, Dr. Meyer-Wolden. Brian Tobin, could I ask a quick
statement of you, how you think of this Compaq Grand Slam Cup 1996? 
 BRIAN TOBIN: Thank you. I don't know that I've got much to add. I think I've made this
speech for five or six years now. It's always one of support for this event. The ITF, the
international tennis family, is delighted with the Compaq Grand Slam Cup. It has a
legitimate reason for being. It's the culmination of performances in the Grand Slams
during the year. Surely there's no more valid and credible way of qualifying for an event
of this type. It is one of the major events of the year. You only have to look outside and
see the support that it's being given by the public. I think, yes, there have been some
problems with players this year here. But, this isn't the only tournament that's had
problems with players this year. If you look back at a few of the others - I'm thinking of
the Paris indoors as one of them - I think one has to look at some of the players and ask
whether they're acting in a professional way towards their sport rather than criticizing
the events. I think the new dates will provide a much better time; will provide the
players with probably no reasons or excuses for not playing. The Grand Slam Cup, the
Compaq Grand Slam Cup, was originally scheduled at this time of the year to avoid any
conflict, any interference with the ATP Tour. I think that the lack of cooperation and
support there has forced the event to reschedule at a time that's much more appropriate to
the event. It's the culmination of the Grand Slams, and it should take place soon after
the four Grand Slams have occurred. I don't need to remind you. I think that the
tournament also provides $2 million to the Grand Slams which go into the development of
tennis worldwide. That's being used constantly to develop more tennis players, which will
in turn help all of us with new faces, new talent at these major tournaments. I hope that
you will understand that from our point of view, we consider this a very important,
worthwhile and beneficial event. It seems to me that some of the criticisms and lack of
support for this tournament have also been evident in other areas. I speak of the Davis
Cup. Last week in Malmo, I think the Davis Cup answered those critics just as well as I'm
sure the Compaq Grand Slam Cup will. It has our wholehearted support. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Could I ask Mr. Barth to give his view from the title sponsor's point
of view. 
 ANDREAS BARTH: Again, this year, we, Compaq, are most satisfied with this tournament.
This is the unanimous opinion of more than 5,000 guests that we have been inviting this
week. We've seen some excellent tennis, although we're a bit disappointed to see that some
players withdrew in the last minutes. But, there were great matches. The organization of
this tournament is perfect. You couldn't do it any better. The mood in the hall is very
good. And, I think that Munich, in this preChristmas season, is an excellent atmosphere.
With our on-line service, the most important one, the biggest one that we've ever had for
such a tournament, Baseline '96, we have been very successful. As you know, there has been
a world first with our video images on the Internet, things like the Olympic Games or the
World Cup wouldn't have it, although they are larger organizations. It's really a good
thing and we're going to improve this for the future. As far as we are concerned, we are
totally supporting this tournament. And, we're going to do everything to make our
contribution for this tournament to become still more attractive - even better. I think
the shift to September, as we mentioned a couple of times, is going to contribute a lot to
this. I can tell from the talks I had with players. They said this is very positive. It's
still the running season and we are going to contribute again and again for this
tournament to be the best of the best. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, very much. Just a final word, our host, Mr. Spronk. 
 MR. SPRONK: Of course, a tournament is ending now that has again been a highlight for
the Olympiapark, but also for the City of Munich, worldwide PR at its best. During this
week we have been featuring an atmosphere here that has been frequently mentioned, has
been excellent for the tournament. I'd like to say just one word to those who, as Mr.
Beauvois mentioned, the crowd, in spite of all the things that are offered here, they
focused on the sport. The stands have been well occupied during the matches. Between the
matches and after, they turn to other activities that we have been featuring here, which
is not always the case in other tournaments. In the past, we had to learn a little of
this. This has been done in a very employ way. The crowd has really been focusing on
tennis this week, while accepting everything else. We are looking forward to the
tournament next September and we are certain, together with ISPR, to feature again a very
attractive tournament with very warm and welcoming atmosphere here in Munich. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, very much. Your questions, please. 
 
Q. I understand nobody really likes to be criticized. But, even if we appreciate the
tournament, we appreciate the efforts which have been made, we still have to point out
what are the criticisms that we see that could improve the tournament. About the Compaq,
we say in the media meeting, the computers sometimes are really a little bit too
complicated in the press room. Not all the time they were really useful as they could have
been. This, I believe, could be consulted - could be some agreement with the journalists,
maybe Mr. Lubenoff could do better the statistics and computer which would be help.
Another thing, which I said the other day, to make the draw one week in advance is a big
mistake because when you have players that don't show at the last minute, you are in
trouble. Even if you think to sell tickets you have to put all the names, all the possible
names, to attract people, then at the end it's like a boomerang effect. When they don't
show, people are disappointed. They have to call again; find out who is Becker's opponent,
things like that. I see in all the Grand Slam events, they do the draw a little before,
two, three days before, Thursday, Friday, but never one week before as it was done this
year. As a recommendation, in your interest, I think it would be better to do the draw as
later as can be.
 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: There was no question? 
 
Q. No. I'd like to know, though, what they think. 
 
 DANIEL BEAUVOIS: Even though it's not a question, I'd like to address this point. We
have been hesitating between doing the draw on the Monday prior to the tournament as we
did. The alternative would have been to do it on the Saturday before the start of the
tournament. As you know, the three cancellations that hit us, Sampras, Chang and Todd
Martin, were announced to us on Sunday. If we had done the draw on Saturday, it wouldn't
have changed anything. It would have been exactly the same situation. We would have been
believing that Sampras, Chang and Todd Martin would have been taking place. It would have
been confronted with the problem without changing anything. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Next question. 
 
Q. Question for Dr. Meyer-Wolden. What do you think about the fact that somebody like
Krajicek comes, knowing that he's going to be operated on the next day, and he couldn't
play really? I mean, this has nothing to do with being tired at the end of a long season
or exhausted. He simply couldn't play. He came in order to cash in.
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: Well, you have to ask Mr. Krajicek. I can't tell you. We, the
tournament organizers, can only make rules. The rules say that who qualifies at the four
Grand Slam tournaments is entitled to play. Now, of course, we do this. I do not know to
what extent who is, maybe, injured or not; what he can and can't do. I'm not the right
person to ask. 
 
Q. Yes, but you must find a way to protect yourself as an organizer.
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: If you can tell me how to do it, I'll be pleased to do so. I don't
see any possibility. As I mentioned, we are the organizers. We have to respect somebody
qualifying, coming, playing as any other tournament. Of course, it's a matter of, as you
wrote, professionalism of players. Should they do so or not? This is up to the player, to
take the responsibility. 
 
Q. Is the Krajicek case not a sort of boomerang, giving this high appearance money,
$250,000 for a Grand Slam champion, plus $100,000, you invite the player, although he
can't come and play, take the money, you can't really blame the player, can you? You can't
criticize his lack of professionalism, but you've always got to understand that he takes
this invitation, which is very generous, indeed?
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: It's not all that generous. We're not throwing the money in front of
the player. As has been mentioned a couple of times, there is performance to be made by
the player for the money. It's the four Grand Slam tournament's performance. The
tournament lives by the players. Without the players, nothing would be possible. I've
always said that a major part of the income of this tournament has got to be given to
those who make this tournament. And, they are the players; aren't they? I still believe
this. The other possibility would only be for the organizer to take the money, to put it
into his pocket and to make a benefit out of this. If the media want this, you suggest we
think about it, it's not my concept. Every tournament has a good and bad side, positive
and negative aspects. Always the range of somebody profiting from it, the possibility to
protect yourself from it is small. We have designed the tournament this way, experience
over seven years. I can't even confirm in the case of Krajicek. What I heard is relatively
new to me. Now, there is a sort of black sheep, but it's not symptomatic for the 15 others
to played. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Next question, please. 
 
Q. When you say the players weren't showing professionalism, are you effectively saying
that too many are taking the money and running?
 
 BRIAN TOBIN: I think the question just answered probably confirms that; doesn't it? I
gather from the last question that the tournament was being blamed for being attractive to
the players. I don't think you can blame the tournament for wanting to be the best
tournament and to make the best benefits for the players. Every tournament should do that.
I don't see how the tournament - as Dr. Meyer-Wolden said - can legislate for players who
turn up and who aren't fully fit. I'm sure they do that at other tournaments around the
world as well. It doesn't raise so much exposure as it does here. If you're asking the
question whether players who do not try - I'm not talking about here - I'm talking any
tournament, players who do not try or players who play a first round injured to get the
prize money, I guess you'd have to ask the question, don't you, is that a professional
attitude from players? 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: For the remainder, I am not prepared to accept this in such general
terms as you do it. It is an individual case, or maybe two, but this cannot lead to
generalizing. If you ask this question, I must simply assume that you know it's not
symptomatic for this tournament. It also goes for other tournaments. What happened in
Hannover? There was an ATP bonus. Those who couldn't play could still get the -- can't get
the bonus. They have an obligation to appear; then they get a bonus. Where is the
difference? Agassi comes and says that this entitles me to the bonus, up to a million, and
then he doesn't play. I wouldn't get the bonus if I didn't come. It's exactly the same,
isn't it? Now, I simply assume that if you ask this type of question, that you do have to
know the circuit. You must not say it's symptomatic if it appears in an individual case. I
am not going to flee from your criticism. Every time I believe we can improve something,
I'm prepared to do so. But you really cannot say, and your shedding a bad light on the
tournament, to say that people come just to take the money and go home. If you do say so,
obviously, you didn't see the matches in the hall. You must have been somewhere else. 
 
Q. Wouldn't it be reasonable to take up all this criticism, even as an organizer,
because these two examples can't be denied?
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: Yes, where criticism has to be made, I'm prepared to accept it. Of
course, we learn by criticism. We are grateful if you point certain things out, but this
has got to be specific, case specific. You can't say this in general terms about the
tournament. I'm grateful. I'm in charge of players, as you know. We do not have a monopoly
here, where you say there's only one group deciding everything. We have the ATP on one
side. It's certainly got its own rights. We have the ITF and Grand Slam Cup tournaments.
This is very good because it makes sure we don't face the normal monopoly problems, when
monopoly has all the power, doesn't have to face criticism. My conscience is really clear
with this tournament. I do not have a political function. I'm not close to the ATP, nor
the ITF. This tournament is independent for what it does. This is why it is able to give
this prize money to those who support the tournament, the players. Other tournaments can't
do this to this extent. There are major benefits generated for the organizers. One final
word I didn't say in the beginning. Please do not forget that this tournament is one of
the most successful tournaments of the world. Give me tournaments that are sold out the
very first day at 1 o'clock in the afternoon. What about the tournaments that live up to
your expectations, that can't live economically speaking, Sidney, Tokyo, Stockholm.
Tournaments that I used to admire before I was in this field. Given the system, for
whatever reason, they can't live. In spite of all the criticism we have known and faced in
seven years, we have still created one of the most important tournaments of the world.
This is what is interesting for me, the acceptance of people coming here, 64,000 people,
glad to see what they see. Millions on television screens, they are positive. If this
tournament was so bad, as you say, people wouldn't come and millions wouldn't match the
television. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Given the fact that in 12 minutes the final starts, maybe two further
questions. 
 
Q. Are you considering, in order to live up to the ambition of the tournament, to play
best of five as of the first round? Second, how many journalists were accredited this year
as compared to last year?
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: Well, I think your first question, the answer is no. The normal Grand
Slam format of best of five cannot be adopted here because we do not have this day off,
this free day in between. It would be hard to do this in a week. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: This week, around 550 media representatives have been accredited here. 
 
Q. Has consideration ever been given to awarding bonus points for a player who beats
another one at the Grand Slams, that those points could be used towards getting into this
field? I use as an example, Philippoussis's win over Sampras at the Australian Open. Has
that been a consideration and if not, would it be a consideration? 
 
 DR. MEYER-WOLDEN: These are questions where I'm glad you ask them because I'm the one
who has the least experience in this field. To make a draw more attractive, to think about
the point system, I think we are totally open to this. On the other hand, you must know
that the four Grand Slam tournaments make the rules of this tournament, not that this
tournament makes the rules. Also, the fact that if this was at all feasible, we'd make the
proposal. 
 ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, very much. I wish us a very great final of the Compaq Grand
Slam Cup and see you again for the players' press conferences. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT