WEGMANS LPGA
June 7, 2000
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel coming into this week?
 
 GRACE PARK: This is my 7th week in a row. And maybe I am tired because last week was
such a big one that after everything was over Sunday and travel on Monday I am a little
bit -- I don't know where I am. 
 
Q. Do you feel a little more pressure on you now now that you have that win under your
belt?
 
 GRACE PARK: No, I think -- I mean, I never tried to feel any pressure from anything
outside other than myself. But I mean, if anything, I think I gained confidence out of
this knowing that I didn't play well last year. 
 
Q. The course today, how did you do and how is it playing?
 
 GRACE PARK: Well, I started early and I was wasn't quite up when I began. But it seems
really tough to me - narrow; the greens are very small, tricky. I can't read the breaks
very well. Hopefully I will get it by tomorrow. 
 
Q. This is your first time here, right?
 
 GRACE PARK: Yes. 
 
Q. What changed? I read something about (inaudible) --
 
 GRACE PARK: Yeah, I mean, it wasn't -- after I hit that shot, my swing just got really
good. That swing, in particular, felt really good. After that shot I started making really
good swings near the pin, at the pin, close and closer and that is how I started getting
more and more confidence about my swing. I hit it pretty well but I had been struggling
with my swing for a while and I am such a feel-player that when the feel is gone, I am
gone. 
 
Q. How would you categorize your year? How would you describe it?
 
 GRACE PARK: To me it has been a struggle; a lot of frustration; somewhat of a
disappointment, disappointment in myself, I guess, for not playing up to what I was hoping
for. Shooting scores -- some of the scores I have not shot in four, five years even on the
LPGA Tour; playing as an amateur I didn't play that bad. 
 
 Q. Coming down the stretch did you feel that -- did that help you coming down the
stretch?
 
 GRACE PARK: I think so because I have heard some players say that they don't even
remember how they played the last few holes down the stretch. But, for some reason, I was
very, very relaxed. Never at one point did I think I was going to lose (inaudible). I knew
Juli was there, but I still -- I was very positive. I think that is what helped me. 
 
Q. What about the role your caddie played in your game?
 
 GRACE PARK: Colin is great. He works very hard. More than anything, we have fun out
there. We joke around a lot and you will see us making fun of each other. Other than being
serious for five hours on the golf course, you know, we get serious when we have to, but
after we have worked out and taken care of business, then we are good friends. He started
July last year during the Futures tour. 
 
Q. So you felt good all the way (inaudible)?
 
 GRACE PARK: Ball striking improved dramatically over that one week period. 
 
Q. Have you done anything special going in?
 
 GRACE PARK: I have been just practicing and practicing and hoped to have four days of
okay or good or -- either okay ball striking, but I hit it well for about a day and it
disappeared and would go away. It never lasted a whole week. When you don't hit balls
well, you don't make birdies and you don't get any chances. 
 
Q. Media attention you are getting now after winning, is it overwhelming? Is it partly
why you are tired right now?
 
 GRACE PARK: Maybe. I think it is a little bit of everything. I haven't dealt with that
many media before and that is something very new. I got a lot of phone calls from friends
and family the night on Sunday, travel all day on Monday and didn't sleep well Sunday. I
think after celebrating, that is why I am tired.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT