GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Problem with the groin, I presume? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. The groin is absolutely fine. I had a good start today. I returned
well and I had a few chances early on in the second set. And I just gave away the second
set with three doubles faults and a missed easy volley. It wasn't like he did anything
tremendously well to win the second set. And, the third set, I had three games in a row
where I had breakpoints. I mean, if I probably looked at the match stats, I usually won
more return points I probably in every single category besides winning the match. So, it
is one of those matches you should have won on paper. But I am not too worried about it.
Just move on to New Haven, Boston and get myself physically stronger and get ready for the
Open. That is where you want to play your best tennis. I am not going to kill myself. It
would have been nice to win, obviously would have liked to get more chances in this week.
I had a good opportunity to play Corretja in the second round. I think Jonathan is going
to have a hard time beating Corretja. But, I thought if I would have played Corretja I
think I would have had a good chance. I didn't do what I had to do today. It was one bad
game. That is the way tennis goes. Just getting back into the -- I returned, I stayed down
low and in the third I started lifting up a little bit. Just technical things here I need
to fix up. I mean, if I didn't play that bad game at 3-All probably would be in the locker
room in two sets. That is the way tennis goes. 
 
Q. What did you do for the injury?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I just did rest and rehabilitation. It was absolutely fine for about ten
days. Just had a holiday. Got away from tennis which is nice. My mind is fresh and ready
to go for the rest of the summer. Well, I was in London for a few days. After that I just
went to Barbados for a week for holiday. Didn't pick up the tennis racket and just trained
in the last four days in Saddlebrook with Pete (Sampras) the last three, four days leading
up to here. I had the physio on it and I had the look on it, so it was great. It was good.
I had good practice there and I worked on my return of serve and things like that. I mean,
I was pleased today the way I returned. I just didn't return the big points well and I
didn't stay down in the tiebreaker much. Few technical areas which I think I will clean up
before New Haven and Boston and the Open. I mean, my goal on the hard court season -- I
mean, it would it be nice if you play well in these weeks, but everybody's goal is to play
well in the Open. If I can get in, say, between about six to ten matches before the Open,
I will be pleased and then have a good shot to do well there. Because that is where
everyone wants to make sure they play well. 
 
Q. What did you think of Sampras's form?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Sampras is in the best shape of his life. He is going to be tough to
beat. When I was practicing him, he is probably playing better right now than anybody.
There is no question. He is in a class by himself. If he plays the way he has been playing
in practice, I don't see anybody troubling him at all.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT