GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1996
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Tell us what happened.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't think I was aggressive enough. I played an absolutely shocking
game. I gave him the break. He didn't get the break. I just gave it to him in the third
set. I missed an easy volley, doublefaulted; then he shanked a return. I didn't react to
it. So to win matches like that, I get down 40-Love and then I start playing the right
game plan point by coming in and attacking Jim, so if you don't play intelligent tennis
and you play on the back of the court with Jim, you are going to get beaten so I was
serving so well I didn't get aggressive enough out there and come in which I should have
done. 
 
Q. Did you purposely try in the second set to take something off your serve and worry
about the rest of your game or did it just come down? It looked like the speed came down a
bit.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I thought I served reasonably well in that set, just mixed it up. He
played a good game to break me. I just didn't make him -- I just wasn't aggressive enough
on his games. I mean, one break a set, you should at least be able to break back once or
twice in a set. If you get aggressive enough and come in -- if he beats you, then that is
fine. I am disappointed the way I returned. I didn't return smart enough by attacking Jim.
I should have attacked Jim more. If he beats me passing me then I am pleased. But the way
I played points against him wasn't too bright. 
 
Q. Did you try to think about your serve and take something off of it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I really wasn't worried about what I was doing on my serve. My serve
didn't make the difference in the match today at all. Maybe that one game in the third,
but I got myself into a tighter match than I should have been in. 
 
Q. If you stay back is that because you are not playing the right thing because the
other guy is playing so well that you can't --
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it is a little bit of my stupidity out there, to be honest. I
mean, he served a high percentage of first serves, which is fine, but I mean, I should
just take a few more matches. If you are serving really well, you can take more chance on
your opponent's serve which I didn't do today. I mean, all credit to Jim, he is a great
player, and, you know, he knows how to win matches like that. I would be much more pleased
if I came in here and I lost this sort of match, but I played it the right way on the
games points and that is fine, but I wasn't pleased what I did. I woke up 40 then I
started getting aggressive instead of being aggressive from the back right away. 
 
Q. Have you played top 10 players?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I played a lot of top 10 players over the years. I have lost close
to a lot of them. My first five events of the year, I lost to five winners of the
tournament. I lost to Becker in five in Aussie. I lost to Martin 6 and 6. I lost to
Sampras in three sets, 6 and 6 to Sampras, so I have got to win these sort of matches. I
can't just be losing these sorts. I have played the top guys; played them 7-6, 6-4 in the
third, always very tight, but to make the next step up to stay around 70, 50 or 30, you
have got to win these sorts of matches to get up there. 
 
Q. You know what you did wrong. Can you see that during the match?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, that is where I have -- I have to kick myself and that is what I
have to do. I have to realize during the match and say what am I doing this for; I just
have to take that next step forward, and if I don't, then I will just stay where I am. 
 
Q. Is there any kind of mental block that you have against these guys coming so close?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, 1993 I beat Chang, Ferreira Krajicek all in a row, and lost to
Martin, so there is no reason why I shouldn't be able to beat players like Jim. I am not
saying beat them every time. Maybe if I played them ten times maybe get 2, 3 wins would be
nice. I mean-- and then move it up from there, but I am not taking those opportunities and
those chances. 
 
Q. I mean, do you look at -- I know what your record is against these guys, since those
three victories. Is it to the point now where you look at that and go oh, man another
one-- (inaudible)?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't look at it that way. I think if I play it more intelligent out
there and I just go out there with the same focus, but you have to bring the game up
another level to beat these sort of players. 
 
Q. Could you explain why you moved from Canada to London? His girlfriend lives there
and... But you didn't have to become a British citizen.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I didn't. It was a personal decision, so.... 
 
Q. Did they ask you?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it was all my decision and it was just personal choice. I mean, I
had every right to. My mom's English and I have lived there the last five years and my
girlfriend is there so on. I just answered that question the last year and a half. So..... 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT