TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 9, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Well, that must have been a fairly frustrating experience, Greg. It was a long wait,
conditions weren't to your advantage. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, no, I think the conditions were really tough today. I'm playing a
very good claycourt player, I mean, who won at Estoril his first tournament of the year.
I'm not going to beat that sort of player from the back of the court unless I'm playing
100 percent my best tennis. And it's difficult under these circumstances, because, you
know, it doesn't favor an attacking sort of player, and I had to have a really good
serving day if I had any sort of chance. Even still, if I would have had that, I don't
think I would have had much chance to win. I think the conditions took a 180, it's usually
quick, dry, fast and flying. With all this rain, I think, as you saw by a lot of the
results, none of the serve-and-volleyer players survived at all. 
 
Q. It wasn't all that good a serving day really, was it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I didn't start off serving too well. I think I made a few too many
unforced errors. He's a tricky player, I couldn't get it on to his backhand side. When I
did, he was in that pretty well today, too, so just one of those days. Just move on to
next week. 
 
Q. Was it one of those days where every shot he hit didn't come up?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He's very experienced on the clay. He's one of the best claycourters. I
look at the claycourt matches I've played this year, I mean I played Dosedel on the humid,
hot court with terrible weather, then it drys up on a Tuesday and is lightning fast for
the rest of the week. He should have beaten Pioline. My second tournament I played a great
match against Alami, played a great match against Haas, was pretty satisfied with that
week because it was dry and quick. Come here this week expecting another dry, quick week
and, you know, playing another very experienced claycourt player, won a lot of titles,
beat a lot of great players on clay. Under these conditions it's going to be tough to come
out and get a win no matter how I play. 
 
Q. Can you take anything positive from this?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I had a good week practice, I'm feeling healthy, I'm feeling
strong, just keep on building really. Just look forward to Hamburg and keep on building
toward more the French Open. I've had some difficult draws in three tournaments, I mean
everybody I've played is a claycourt specialist. It's not -- this is their best surfaces.
So I'm putting my test against the best and this is really the first match where I feel
like, you know, I got pretty much dominated from after about 4-3, I mean when I lost my
serve I hit a pretty good forehand volley in the back of the line early, the guy looked
like he had two hours to hit the forehand passing shot. 
 
Q. Was extraordinary how he seemed to somehow almost lure you into the wrong place at
times, he's got this ability to disguise shots?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's the court that dictated. I mean if we were playing on a
faster, dryer court like yesterday, he wouldn't have had the same amount of timing. I
think he's got one of the best forehands on the clay, especially with the disguise as
well. 
 
Q. So what now, Greg?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm just going to stay here, practice a little bit and get ready for
Hamburg, then after Hamburg go home for a few days. And then off to Paris, Queens, a week
off, then Wimbledon. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT