US OPEN
September 7, 2000
Thomas Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Thomas.  
 
Q. You could probably see that he was losing a little bit of fitness in the third set.
You're feeling confident at that point, aren't you?
 
 THOMAS JOHANSSON: Yeah, I felt really good. I thought I played a good game in the
fourth set to break him. But then when I had 4-3, he started to play a lot better. He put
pressure on me on almost every point. I had Love-30 to go up 5-4 again, I think, but then
he played really well.  
 
Q. You had that horribly missed overhead. You won that game, but I had the feeling you
were beginning to lose control of the match at that point. What was your feeling at that
point?
 
 THOMAS JOHANSSON: Well, it was a really bad miss. I mean, I took that game anyway. I
didn't think so much of that, especially that smash. Of course, I should put it away.  
 
Q. In the break game, you come back from Love-30, final point, down the middle a couple
times. Did he surprise you with a winning shot?
 
 THOMAS JOHANSSON: Yeah, he hits the ball so well. He hits the ball so heavy. It's tough
when he hits the ball in the corners because his backhand is unbelievable. I had to stay
away from that today. He played too good today.  
 
Q. Will you look back at this as maybe the biggest missed opportunity of your career so
far?
 
 THOMAS JOHANSSON: I think I played a good match today. I don't see it as a missed
opportunity. I mean, I think if he should have beat me, he should have beat me in five,
not in four. When I was up a break in the fourth, I lost my serve twice. That should not
happen. Maybe he could beat me in the breaker, but not as he did today. Of course, he lost
some power, but he played really well. He deserves to win. 
 
Q. The first two sets you couldn't find your rhythm?
 
 THOMAS JOHANSSON: I think in the first six games, I played maybe one of my best tennis
ever. It was 4-2 for him. He had a breakpoint and he took it right away. There was one
break in the first, one break in the second. He served so well, so it's so tough to break
him back.  
 
Q. Do you think he's from the baseline, he's as good as any baseline player?
 
 THOMAS JOHANSSON: Yeah. As I say, he hits the ball really well and really heavy,
especially on his backhand. I tried to stay away from it today. But his forehand worked
obviously really well, too.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT