MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Cal Ripken, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Cal, would you talk about what it's like to be on both sides during tonight's game,
part of the All-Century group and part of the current team?
 
 CAL RIPKEN, JR.: Some of the festivities that go along with the All-Star Game, there's
some great moments. And I don't know if today's pregame festivities, whether it deviated
from the program or not, but it seemed like it did. It seemed like there was a lot of
spontaneous reaction, there was a lot of genuine feelings towards baseball. I know that I
was actually supposed to help Ted get up and throw the first pitch out, and everybody
actually swarmed him and wanted to talk baseball with him and shake his hand. That was a
great thing. I spent some time in the afternoon with all the great baseball players that
were nominated, and on the list, and it's cool to me that the language of baseball
transcends different eras. So you can talk baseball, same dimension, same mounds, strike
zones, anything you want to talk about, you can talk with the great players of the game,
and I had a great time doing that. 
 
Q. Cal, this is your 5000th All-Star Game, do they get more special as they go on?
 
 CAL RIPKEN, JR.: They're special and unique with each and every one. Coming to Boston
and having the great history of baseball in Boston and the baseball field and the stadium,
it was a special feeling being out there. You put the great players from the National
League against the great players in the American League and have a game in this
environment in Fenway Park, it doesn't get much better than that. 
 
Q. With all the things surrounding this game, Cal, would you talk about where this game
will rank in terms of the great memories that you've produced?
 
 CAL RIPKEN, JR.: Well, to me it seems like it goes along with the debate about when you
design new stadiums and they talk about what they want to try to capture in a new stadium,
try to capture the old-time baseball field, what it represents, what it means, places like
Fenway Park and Tiger Stadium and Fenway Park, all of those places have it. When you try
to define what that means, what is that? What is that? When you're out on the field
playing, and you just -- you have that special magical feeling in a ballpark that has
baseball history, it seems like you know what it means. And to have an All-Star Game here
to compete that way, that's a nice, special moment. So, again, all the All-Star games are
very unique, because the celebration of baseball and the Mid-Summer Classic is great. But
when you actually do it in a slightly different way at a different ballpark, the
significance of Fenway Park has to rank way high up there on the list. 
 
Q. When they build the new Camden Yards, do you hope you'll have a night like Ted
Williams has tonight?
 
 CAL RIPKEN, JR.: Am I still going to be active? (Laughter.) Camden Yards they did a
great job in the design of the ballpark. I had the same feelings of losing Memorial
Stadium, and then when they designed Camden Yards and they got that old baseball feel in a
new ballpark, it's a great feeling. So I think Camden Yards will be around for a while. 
 
Q. Cal, does it feel good just to get up there, get a hit, drive in a run, against the
best?
 
 CAL RIPKEN, JR.: If you get hit by a pitch, that feels pretty good, too. 
 
Q. It's against the best, though, what's it like?
 
 CAL RIPKEN, JR.: There's a great feeling to perform in this kind of environment. It is
the best of the best. And you're the spotlight or the highlight -- to compete in this
environment, it's a special environment. Some people think it's an exhibition kind of
environment, but I think that's the farthest from the truth. It's a great celebration, and
we all enjoy the festivities and we all enjoy being with each other, but when the game
starts the caliber of the quality of the players that are out on the field, they want to
win and they want to perform and they want to do a good job. When you're up at homeplate
and you are battling against some of the very best people, it makes you feel that much
better when you're able to get a hit. I felt good about that hit today.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT