AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 18, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Leaving the number of runners that you did on base and committing the number of
errors you did, do you believe there is a curse?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't believe in the curse. I really don't. Unfortunately, we did
leave runners on, and, like I said before, when we made a mistake, they seemed to
capitalize. So that probably hurt us. 
 
Q. The Yankees in '98 got all the hype. They had a mystique going for them. I know your
team believed you could win the series. How good are the Yankees compared to last year?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, they have a very veteran ballclub, and, you know, they've been
through the war, so to speak. They won championships. Most of that club has been the same
as what it was before. But, you know, they beat us. I tip my cap to the Yankees. I
congratulate them. Joe Torre, his coaching staff, the players. They have a fine club. I
wish them the best in the World Series. 
 
Q. Just comment about your season.
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, this is a special club, for me. I think this City of Boston, the
people of New England really like this team. This whole summer, you know, they never
dropped their heads, they never quit. Even tonight we had a pretty good shot in that 8th
inning, just didn't quite work. I basically just thank them all for what they gave, you
know, what they gave every day as baseball players as a unit. But for me, it's a special
group of guys that really became a unit to perform together daily. 
 
Q. You've had other successful campaigns with other teams. Is this maybe the most
enjoyable season you've had as a manager?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: A lot of blue-collar kids here. Read between the lines. I'm not saying
other teams weren't, but they -- they seem to really enjoy being with each other and
pulling for each other. So, you know, with that in mind, it's very easy to, if what I am
as a manager, to manage a team because I don't have to do much. I don't. In fact, I don't
know what I do but watch them play. You know, so... From that standpoint, they're always
prepared every day. From that standpoint, it's easy to put on a hit and run, a bunt,
whatever. They're ready to do anything to help the club win at any time. 
 
Q. Is there one thing that the Yankees do or did that makes them champions, that
separates them from the other clubs? 
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We had trouble getting those top-two guys out. They're tough, Knoblauch,
Jeter. They can create havoc, both of them. They walk, they hit, they hit with power, they
run. I'm certainly not knocking the rest of the club because to me they are basically
table-setters, is what they are. But very dangerous table-setters because the rest of that
line-up, I mean they have seven, eight guys that can -- I mean they can hit home runs at
any time. You look at their bench; they have a veteran bench of players, they have a good
mix over there. They have a good blend of players that play and then those that aren't
playing, maybe they played yesterday or they're going to play tomorrow. So that's a team,
too. They not only have very good pitching, they have outstanding closers. 
 
Q. Was the difference tonight Hernandez and the job that he did?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, you know, he had a shot earlier when Mercker picked off Martinez
and Lowe came in and got Jeter out, still in the game -- I believe it was 2-0 and then it
became 4-0. Varitek gets a home run, Nomar a double. O'Leary walked and then Stanley, to
me, he hit a ball very, very good that was a defensive guy got it, Huskey gets a walk, he
comes in, gets a strike out and a pop-up. At that particular juncture of the game when
it's still 4-1, game's still hanging in the balance, we whack a ball here or there, it's
tied or close to being tied. So, yeah, you have to think that probably from their
standpoint, pitching-wise, they got out of a key jam at that particular time in the game. 
 
Q. Looking at the way the teams matched up in this series, what one or two ingredients
do you think you need to go the rest of the way next year?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I'd rather just savor the season and the playoff experience and look at
the team we have here right now and I tip my cap to them rather than look ahead. Let's
just take a step back here and see what these kids did. Whether it's the youngsters, you
know, Daubach and Nixon, or the veteran guys, Valentin, certainly the year Pedro had. You
can mention a lot of names. I'm not really focused in on looking ahead at this particular
moment, just reflect back maybe. 
 
Q. You mentioned the Yankees taking advantage of opportunities. Are they one of the
more -- most opportunistic clubs you've seen?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: See, when you get to this level of play, clubs do that. We did it, too.
But in this particular series, it didn't work for us as well as it did for them, but I
think to get to this level you have to be an opportunistic -- I can't say that word
anyway. You have to take advantage of situations and then get a hit with guys in scoring
position, you know, two out base hits. If you're talking about offense, certainly make
some plays and some key pitches. 
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Thank you all very much, too. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT