TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 14, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Lindsay.

Q. This is one of your tougher opponents?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The style of game, I've had problems with it in the past. Like I
said yesterday, I think I'm a little bit more of an all-around player than I was maybe
when I played her in '96. I think I lost three or four times in a row. You get more
experience dealing with the different types of spins on the balls. You know, some balls
she hits real high, some are real low. I think today I combatted everything really well,
made my errors when I had to, but really kept the pressure on and kept the balls deep,
served very well. I mean, I never really ever got close to being broken. That gave me a
lot more confidence when I was returning. 

Q. Your next opponent, I believe you played her at Fed Cup. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I remember the first time I saw her play was at the Australian
Open, I guess '99 it would be. She played Martina in a night match. I watched it on TV. I
thought she was very good. She's obviously been playing well here. I haven't seen much of
her play. I think a big thing is to try and attack her serve. When I played her at
Stanford, she gave me a lot of double-faults, didn't serve great. It looks like when she's
serving okay, she has more confidence in the rest of her game. If I can get her thinking
about her serve a little bit. Looks like she has a big forehand that she likes to run
around and hit. Sometimes it's try to go to the backhand or hit it up the line so she has
to hit the forehand from that side of the court. She hits the ball hard. I'm going to be
happy to go back to a player who plays like that than a player who gets a lot of balls
back (laughter). 

Q. Were you expecting Martinez to hit more balls back to you today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she made a few errors. I think a lot of that, I was hitting
the balls pretty deep and hard. Here in the light air, I think that made my balls travel
faster. I played well. I mean, I made some errors, but I hit a lot of good winners. You
know, her game is to get a lot of balls back. Today I think I was just able to overpower
her and keep a pretty good level of consistency. 

Q. Did the heat affect you at all?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean, it could have if it had gone real long, but not today. 

End of FastScriptsâ¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT