PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 27, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A few loose ends out there. But comfortable enough victory?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, you know, it is always tough to enter the quarterfinals
without playing a match here. But, you know, it wasn't a perfect match, but it was good.
She is a very tough player; takes the ball very early, so she doesn't give you a lot of
time to set up and hit your shots. It was a little bit of an adjustment playing under the
lights. But overall, I mean, I am pretty happy. It is great to continue to win and to win
especially when you maybe didn't play your best.

Q. Look ahead to a semifinal match coming up tomorrow. She is playing her game, very
tough possibility?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was watching her play tonight. It looked like she was playing
phenomenal. She plays the type of game where she -- you know she wasn't making any errors
tonight if she is playing with that way she is obviously very, very difficult to beat. I
am going to try and force the issue a little bit more than maybe Amanda did, try and hit
the ball a little bit harder. And maybe hopefully win some points on my serve. But it is
tough. It looks like she is in great form here. But I am glad I got to play a match
tonight and hopefully I keep getting better and it will be a great match tomorrow.

Q. She pushed you to two sets in two semifinals this year, right, Steffi did?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right.

Q. Did she look even better tonight than when she played you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It is tough to compare players when they are playing against
different styles of players. I mean, she might look good against Amanda, but I think she
has a lot more time to set up for her shots against Amanda than maybe she would against me
or another harder hitter. But she definitely looks very confident. She is very focused.
Sometimes when you lose a few matches you want it even more. So it is going to be a tough
match. That is it.

Q. Overall picture, US Open coming up, so forth. Is it exciting time to be in women's
tennis right now? You have had three separate winners in three slams, and you are looking
going into that, what does that mean for you right now as you look at the overall picture
going into the last Grand Slam?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, for the last five or six years I have played, this is
the most exciting women's tennis has been. I don't think there has ever been so many girls
that have a shot to win every tournament each other. There is no clear-cut favorite, I
don't think, this year. It is great. I mean, you can't really choose winners anymore. A
lot of people were talking about how the teenagers were going to win all of Grand Slams;
then you have Novotna and Sanchez coming through as surprise winners. That is what makes
it so interesting because you can't say, oh, this is a lock for whoever. All the matches
have been very competitive and there has been some great kind of rivalries developing.

Q. Number 1, what would it mean to you if you can overtake Martina and finish --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Obviously it would mean a lot. I think it is still a little bit a
ways away. I have to keep playing well to be able to do that. She is not going to give it
up without a fight. I am just really enjoying playing right now. I have played very
consistent. I have really improved my game. And if No. 1 happens, so be it, but right now
I am focusing on winning a Grand Slam and seeing what happens when that happens.

Q. How do you feel physically right now?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I feel good.

Q. You sound a little stuffy?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I have -- other reasons. No cold. But I feel good. Physically I
feel good, and it is great to be able to play matches. I wasn't happy last night with
getting default and be back out here tomorrow night.

Q. You have played Anke -- you have guys played a lot of tough matches. Were you
surprised with how much difficulty she had with her serve tonight?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think of all the shots Anke has, her serve is the most vulnerable.
She hits her groundstrokes great, always takes the ball early, but I know sometimes she
can gets a little shaky on that. So you know, I was able to break her a few times in the
beginning and maybe that got her a little bit more weary on it, I am not sure, but I was
trying to take advantage of that because she takes the ball so early; she is always
standing inside the baseline and the balls come back so much faster when you play here,
and obviously she is just coming back from an injury, but I don't see a long time before
she is back in the Top-10 again. I see it coming quickly. I think she is a great player.

Q. Did the byes throw your timing off -- take a little time to find your game?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, but I think it is hard when somebody has played two matches
already in the week. Sometimes a bye even hurts when you win one match; let alone two
matches. I feel like I played pretty well. I didn't play, obviously, my best tennis. I
don't think she did either. But I like to work my way into a tournament. I would like to
have two matches going into play Steffi, but I have got one and I will see what I can do
tomorrow.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT