NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 29, 2000
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Birdie on the 5th hole pitching wedge to three feet. Birdie No. 6,
7-wood on the green 2-putt. No. 8, sand wedge to four feet. Birdied No. 10, 7-iron to 16
feet. That was it. And then pars. 
 
Q. What is new with your life? Can you tell us any more secrets of why you have played
this golf course so well that you haven't said before? I mean, is this going to continue
everyday?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I hope so. I hope it continues for years. No, when you come to a
place where you feel comfortable and when you like the golf course, for some reason it
sets up really well for me - the design of the holes, the lanes, just everything. When you
know that you it gives you confidence. I have played well here in the past. Those are
factors that I guess adds up and it just gives you confidence and it is great to have when
you come out here. I mean, I know the course so well, too. I have been here now, let's
see, I have played ten times so I am very familiar with where to hit it and how the greens
slope, et cetera, et cetera. So obviously it is fine to execute the shots the way you want
to and now I am swinging really well and putting well, so it makes it a lot of fun. 
 
Q. Are there other courses like this maybe on the Tour, maybe elsewhere in the world,
maybe in Sweden that you just, every time you tee it up, you break 70?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: There is a few courses where I feel very comfortable with and this is
one of them. In St. Louis I always played well there before they changed the golf course.
I am trying to figure out another golf course where I played very well - in New York - the
course are not very similar, but it is still I feel comfortable. I know where to hit it.
And there are some courses where some girls love it and I find it quite difficult. So it
just really varies. But here I don't see any hazards here, I just see a big fairway and I
just see a big green and that is what makes it so fun to go out and just swing at the
flag; especially when the greens are so soft. I could shoot at the flag and I know it will
sit. 
 
Q. Yesterday I was joking when I asked you if you were going to buy a house here, but
today I am not.
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: (laughs) We are getting closer to it. 
 
Q. Close to affording one also?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That is true, that is true. 
 
Q. You are obviously going to be at or near the top heading into the weekend. Given the
fact that you have had so much success here and you have won here last year,
confidence-wise going into the weekend it would seem you are probably feeling pretty good?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, yes, I do. Actually yesterday I felt 3-under was the highest
score I could have. Today I even think I could have a few shots less. That is how
comfortable I feel out here and that is how well I think I hit the ball. So if this
continues, if my rhythm is there -- I mean, I can't wait to play tomorrow. It is going to
be fun. Hopefully the conditions will stay the same, maybe dry out a little bit. I told my
caddie, I just want to keep going after 18, things are going so well. I didn't want to
stop. Hopefully the momentum will carry on. 
 
Q. Conditions set up for maybe some people out there to score well then still?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, definitely. As you can see it is a good day out there. There is
hardly any wind. The course is in great shape. I mean, there are a lot of birdies out
there. There are opportunities for the girls to go low. I am just glad that I finished the
way I did because that is going to keep me up -- I will be a little bit on top, but I
wouldn't be surprised to see some low scores. 
 
Q. When you start with a birdie and then you go 12 holes in a row with par, you feel
pretty good about that when you are playing in a US Open and you can just stay right
around par, but is it hard not to -- I don't know -- do you get impatient at all on a
course like this to get more birdies -- when you are making all those pars in a row or
not, are you happy with 12 pars in a row?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I wasn't really happy because I had a lot of opportunities. But when
we started, I was actually surprised to make birdie on the first hole. It was cold. I
mean, it was probably 40 degrees. Hit the fairway; then hit the green and the putt rolled
in. I said, that is a good change, it was a great start. It was warming up. I said, I am
going to do better now. I hit a lot of greens; didn't really make the putts where I think
I had a chance. On 17 I had a great chance, probably five feet, it was a tricky line, but
I was getting a little bit impatient. I figured I still have a lot of holes to go and I
just got to give myself chances, keep hitting the fairways and greens, and they got to go
in. And eventually they did, and had a nice little run the last four holes. 
 
Q. Besides 17 where were the other chances that you can remember?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I hit 16 greens, so I had a lot of chances. Some were a little longer
obviously, but once you are on the green, there is a good chance. These greens are so
smooth. On No. 7 I had short putt, maybe six feet, seven feet. 
 
Q. Any news from Terry?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No news. Well, the news is that -- it probably won't happen until
next week now. So he said he could have been out here the last few weeks. 
 
Q. But now his plans have changed now for the Solheim Cup?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, he is going to come. He is going to fly out on Sunday and he will
be there -- he actually said he could take another two or three weeks, so.... If it
doesn't happen naturally now, he hopes that it takes a long time (laughs). 
 
Q. He is going to go to the Solheim even if the birth hasn't occurred?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah. 
 
Q. What is the name of your caddie that you are using this week and what is your
background with him?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: His name is Mark. I don't know much about him. I know he is from
England. That is about it. He caddies for Alison Nicholas on a regular basis, but I have
got to know him a little bit just by being out here, but I know him much more now. When
you are out there, you really talk about a lot of things and for ten days I know him more
now. 
 
Q. How did it happen that you chose him?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Terry hooked me up actually, so..... 
 
Q. Terry is where? 
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: He is in Florida just outside Orlando. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT