U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Dottie Pepper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Well, I got off such a good start this year. I think once you win the
first major, your natural focus is towards the second. Not that I necessarily build my
years around the majors, but I certainly know where they are and what I think I need to be
prepared properly for them. Pretty much spent the last month or so gradually building to
this point, and feel like I am pretty much peaking at about the right time again. 
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: I was sick for pretty much the entire month after the Dinah Shore; so
got my rest whether I wanted to in that fashion or not. I missed two tournaments that I
had committed to play in and planned on playing. Since then, pretty much followed the
pattern, but I just feel like I have played a little bit better. Maybe not in the Open,
but majors in general, by playing my way into them and playing decent amount of rounds
prior to them. The last month of played quite a bit. 
 
Q. You played so well at Solheim Cup, and you said then it was just a matter of time
before you won again. It didn't seem like there was a great urgency; you knew it was going
to happen. Did you know that --
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: (laughs) Maybe you should ask Ralph about the emergency. 
 
Q. Did you know going into Dinah did that feel like it was going to be your week final
chance?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: I felt at any point on the West Coast I could win and really went out
there prepared to win and really kind of expected to win. I don't think you can go into
any one particular tournament saying: I know I am going to win this week, or I am spending
more attention on this one particular tournament, because I think that puts a lot of added
pressure on yourself that you really don't need. I just felt like having spent the entire
month of February working really hard that I was pretty well due to win somewhere soon. 
 
Q. I know you have played this course before, but can you talk about your how you found
the course so far?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: I think -- people have asked. I think I have played here four times
prior. I think maybe three -- original one, I played the first -- I think we played two
days. I think maybe the first one was even in '89 or 90; so I have kind of seen it mature
a little bit; felt compelled not to play yesterday, I guess. Not be out there forever in
preparation. It is a good driver's golf course, I think, to the extent that it is not
horribly long. I think it is a golf-course-management sort of golf course. I don't think
you need to stand up there with driver every time. You feel like you need to bust it out
there. The par 3s, what I remember most about the golf course because I think they are the
best holes of the golf course. I think they particularly reward good golf shots. 
 
Q. How are you playing coming into the Championship?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Well, I eked out two Top-10s by the hair on my teeth the last two times
out, and done that when I haven't felt that I haven't been able to fire on all cylinders
yet. So considering I've got my instructor here to work with me a little bit this week. I
think we made minor adjustments that we needed to make, and I feel pretty good about it. I
think the important thing with the weather, the heat the humidity is to not kill yourself
on Tuesday and Wednesday and to be prepared to play on Thursday. 
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Bacterial infection. 
 
Q. The consensus seems to be from other players as well that there is somewhat of a
relief not having to go back to Kohler, Wisconsin or having that type of course again. Can
you kind of compare the two?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: There is no comparison. There really isn't. The golf course we played
last year did not reward good golf shots. It just didn't. You had to get very lucky to
have anything, you know, that you expected to happen, happen. I remember hitting a shot
into 17th on Sunday, 15, maybe 20 feet from the hole; I literally have no play. That to me
is just not fair. When the designer says that the golf course wasn't meant to be set up
that way or meant to have the rough on it that it did, to me something wasn't right. 
 
Q. Are there any holes here that -- you mentioned the par 3s, but any holes here that
kind of present difficulty in a similar fashion?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Similar, no. I think this golf course, like I said, rewards good golf
shots. You have the ability to chip the ball and good chips are rewarded. It is not like
if you hit some goofy spins off a mound, you knock it 40 feet coming back for par. There
are no holes out here that were supposed to be par 5s that are now par 4s. The golf course
is playing fair. I just think if the golf course is good enough to hold the Championship
that it should be played the way I think this one will be, and the golf course will be
played the way it was meant to be designed to play. 
 
Q. While you are on that subject, I have noticed when I talked to players such as
yourself, or even on the men's Tour whatever, and they are on a course that a player had a
hand in designing, they say pretty much what you just said; that the course would reward a
good shot, but it is a tough course. Now, sometimes when you play a course where just a
designer had a hand in it, they are a little tougher or not rewarding enough. Your
thoughts?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: I tend to agree with that to some point. I mean, I know some of my
favorite golf courses that I have played -- Kruger Point one of my favorites at Kiawa.
Gary Player designed that one, it does a lot like this one it rewards good golf shots. But
at the same time, when you look at Alice Dye, she is a very good player in her own right,
and has a lot to do with what Pete does on the golf course. But sometimes when the weather
kicks in and things aren't set up the way they were designed to be played; it becomes a
little crazy. But I think this golf course has enough built-in parameters where it could
be extremely difficult if the wind blows. Holes like the 11th, they are going to be hard
pars, which is the way it should be.  
 
Q. Following up on that, regardless of what they do with the fairways, the rough and
this and that, I understand that these greens can really have some treacherous pin
placements, and that they are very good against that. Is that true because they are fast?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: They can be fast in some spots, yes. I think if the wind blows and the
humidity level happens to drop a little bit, I think they will get pretty firm and quite
quick. But at this point in the week, they are still -- they are receiving good shots. If
the ball is struck properly, they are taking a shot. They are going to release -- I don't
know, we were getting ten feet to 12, 15 feet a rollout today with a metal iron which is
completely understandable; longer iron, it will be a little bit more. I think they are
really reasonable. But golf course management part of it comes in, because there are going
to be some pins that are going to have to be a little more aware of than others. 
 
Q. At Nabisco you had such a terrific low score. That was a record as well?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: It was. 
 
Q. Where does that place now in your mind you have to set it back a bit and/or are
their strings in that game in those rounds that you can draw on now?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: I think any chance you have to put your name on the record book like
that is -- occupies a spot in the forefront. To play four rounds the way I did was pretty
mistake-free. When I did -- I didn't drive the ball that greatly that week, but when I did
miss the fairways, pitched it out to the 60-, 70-yard mark, it was probably the best I
have been in the last couple of years from that point in. When you can get the ball
up-and-down from that point, it somehow makes the fairways seem a little wider and let's
you relax a little more thinking: Well, if I do that miss-hit a shot, I know can get the
ball up-and-down for par. I did not 3-putt once that week. The greens I hit, I always had
a chance to make birdies. Just happened to make my fair share that week. It gives you a
lot of confidence to know that you have played so well in a major; that a lot of hard work
was just rewarded. I have tried to put myself in that same framework over the last month,
and it is like finally that I have felt well enough to prepare myself properly. Not only
for this week, but I felt like when I went to Nashville and I went to Corning last week, I
was prepared to play well and win those tournaments and that didn't happen, but I went in
feeling like I was playing well enough to win. I think that is all you can ask of yourself
getting ready to play in any tournament, let alone a major. 
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Well, Ralph has become a green thumb in the family; so I don't know. Now
he expects me to grow them as fast as he did, I think. I think I am competitive, sure. In
a lot of things, but there is also a side of our family life that is not very competitive
at all, and it is very harbored. It is very serene. We live literally in the middle of
nowhere during the summertime. Just for that purpose, it is a good way to get away from
it, because everything about being out here is so competitive. I think people see the
competitive side, but they don't see the other balanced side, too. 
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: We have got a pretty decent wine collection starting to take care of
itself. Last summer, we moved my office downstairs so it won't be on the main level of the
house and built a quiet room and a theater, so we would have room to listen to some really
good music and watch some concerts and movies. We don't do a whole lot when we are home.
We spend a lot of time just kind of enjoying home life, not making a whole lot of
commitments, and enjoying being with our neighbors and taking the dog out running on the
mountain. Everything that the TOUR is not. 
 
Q. You are paired with Karrie in the first two rounds. She has had a pretty spectacular
year so far. Is playing with a player like her -- both of you are very intense, but can
you feed off of each other if both of you are playing well in a round?
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Yeah, I think momentum swings in groups and a lot of times up see one or
two players play well, and the third will just drag along-- won't play well. Yeah, I think
that does happen. But I don't know that you can spend a whole heck of a lot of time
worried about who you are playing with because you got enough to handle, just pegging it
on the first hole. I played with Annika first two days at Dinah, so I guess there is bound
to be great pairings and fortunately I have got one of them. 
 
Q. With Alison talking about Karrie, can you sort of give your thoughts on what it must
be like the pressure that she was under having not won a major but being so successful --
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: Well, I have often said I thought Nicklaus started this whole major
rah-wah (sic) because he said he built his schedule around majors and evaluated his career
on majors. The media, I think, has just jumped on that wagon. To me, I mean, I can
understand wanting to win majors because I think they are important. They are a barometer
of how you are playing at certain points during the year. Majors do not make a career. Ask
Andy North, he has won two Opens and that was about it. To me the big picture for me is
trying to get into the Hall of Fame. You need to do a lot more than just play well in the
majors to do that. I got to believe that that is one of Karrie's goals as well. She knows
the majors you can't -- I guess you could win 15 majors to get into the Hall of Fame or 14
and whatever it would take. But that is not realistic either. Yes, they are important and
I am sure she has placed some pretty well on her list of priorities. But I think at the
same time she knows how well she is playing and you have to take that for what it is as
well. 
 
 DOTTIE PEPPER: It seems a little more tangible right now. Finally having a set number
that we know is going to be the defining criteria and I had said before this season
started, I felt like if I could get my number down to single digits it would be considered
a successful year. That would mean I would have to win a major or win two tournaments and
I would say, oh, well, that is a good way, I mean, we got it down to single digits to get
it from 10 to 8, somewhere in that ballpark. When you win the first major and it all of a
sudden down to 8 and it is only March the 28th, I think you start thinking a little
bigger. I think that is a good thing. If the world is a perfect place we would be sitting
here Sunday afternoon with only 6 points to go. Certainly it's in the forefront of your
mind, but the big picture is you need to go play well first. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT