GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 9, 2000
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I'd love to. I feel like I'm on top of my game right now. I feel like
I'm driving it pretty well and putting well. I'm obviously familiar with the golf courses
and know the area, know the climate. There's a lot to be said about being comfortable and
being familiar. It's just a real easy week. Hopefully, I'll be able to focus on golf, and
not on the Stars playoff series.  
 
Q. You sort of just answered it, but I was going to ask you whether you feel like
you're on a roll, or do you feel like you're coming off of a disappointment? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Well, no question, coming off a disappointment. It's been a long time
since I've been in that position and gotten a chance to play for it; in Atlanta we got
rained out. I've worked really hard on improving the quality of my short game, the
consistency of my putting, and also my golf course management, just for the sole purpose
of trying to win golf tournaments. When I get in the heat, I wanted to be better, and
better prepared for the pressures that go along with it. So all the work that I've been
doing -- I saw some really good things for those 17 holes or 16 holes I played, as well as
all week, but to have happen what did on No. 17 was obviously a disappointment. It's going
to hurt for a while. There's a sting there. And the best thing I can do is realize that
I've been playing well for five or six weeks now. When I say "five or six
weeks," I mean five or six tournaments, which has been almost two months I've been
playing really good golf. And, you know, if I can try to focus on the positives and try to
remember that I'm playing good golf, then I don't see it as coming off a disappointment or
coming off the roll or coming off. I think I'm in the middle of a good stretch right now,
and hopefully, it will continue.  
 
Q. Is there something about the month of May that brings out the best in people? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Oh, I don't know. Everybody always says this is my time of year. I
think it's because -- I'm not the kind of guy that can play all year long and can play
hard all year long. I can't do that. I've got down time that I have to take at the end of
the year, September, October, November, or even December -- November and December are
times that I'm not really very interested in playing golf and don't do much. And you can't
just jump out and say, "okay, it's time to play," and be ready to go and be
sharp. It takes me a while -- the first part of the year I'm not ready. It takes me, five,
six, seven weeks to get back into the swing of things. And I work hard in the first four
months, five months of the year. So right now, I'm just starting to see the results of all
that hard work. And then what happens is I continue to work hard and play hard through
July and August, and then September I started getting burned out. So I don't know if May
is really the time. It just seems like April, May, June, July, I'm in between that area
where I'm comfortable with my game and before a period of burnout.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about -- obviously, you've played out here quite a bit. Do
you think the changes they made on the TPC course in the off-season will do much to
scoring yet? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I haven't seen it. Yesterday I took the day off. Did a lot of
housekeeping things, really, just kind of got myself registered, got tickets set up, got
stuff done to my equipment, had a couple meetings; so I didn't have a chance to get on the
golf course. I played Cottonwood today. Just speaking with Mr. Nelson, he seems to think
that the improvements are going to make the golf course a better golf course that's going
to test you consistently as you go through. And you know, I've heard that some of the
changes are not terribly drastic, with the exception of No. 6 and 10. 
 
Q. And 15 they moved the tee box back up 40 yards.
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: On 15? There's not 40 yards to go.  
 
Q. They announced that they moved it back from 30 to --
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Just trying to think of where they could possibly move it.  
 
Q. And they raised the fairway up 10 or 12 yards. 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: That's a big change. That hole's going to play tougher, because it was
already a pretty good hole to begin with. 10, I think they just changed the angle on the
shot. I don't think it's playing any longer. But 6, I think they moved it back 40 yards,
something like that, back there by 12 tee. Those two holes alone, 6 now turns into --
instead of being a 2-iron, 9-iron hole, is now probably going to turn into a driver,
3-wood and having to take 7-iron, 8-iron at that green, and that's going to change it
significantly, especially if you get the wind blowing like it can left-to-right pretty
good. Number 15, that could be a real beast if the wind turns around and blows out of the
south. Isn't that right? South will be into it? Yeah. Wind turns and blows out of the
south, you've got some serious finishing holes out there with 14, 15, 17 and 18. And it's
supposed to be windy. It's been windy here all spring. I don't see why it would stop for
this tournament. 
 
Q. Historically, Cottonwood plays the easier of the two courses here. If they are going
to -- if some of these changes will make the TPC a little bit more difficult for scoring,
does that like raise the importance of getting your 66 in the bag or whatever in
Cottonwood this week if scoring conditions are tougher across the street?
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Well, of course, you know, everybody has got to play both of them. I
think a lot of it depends on the weather. If you happen to catch TPC on a windy day, and
don't -- and then get to play Cottonwood on a calm day, then obviously you've got a huge
advantage over the person who has it reversed from you. If the weather stays consistent
and the wind blows a similar direction and with the similar speeds, you know, about the
same velocity, I guess I should say, then I don't see it making a huge difference.  
 
Q. Do you adopt a different mind set for playing that course that day at all? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: No.  
 
Q. Do you feel like you need to bag more birdies to maximize your one chance?
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: The Cottonwood course, yeah, it plays easier. I think it's because if
you -- if you're driving your ball well, you've driving it into places where the shots are
easier. If you're not driving your golf ball very well, Cottonwood can be pretty tough.
So, you know, a lot has been made about stroke -- you know, about Cottonwood being easier,
but I would have to say probably it's not. Maybe you guys know the stats, but it's
probably not much more than a shot or shot-and-a-half difference. That's not tremendous.
It's not like somebody can win the golf tournament playing Cottonwood. You've got to go
play them. And the par 5s are reachable on the golf course, and it traditionally plays a
little bit softer than TPC so that you've a little bit more freedom of taking a shot right
at the pin. And your chip shots are easier; ball's not going to run away from you as much.
 
 
Q. How much has fatherhood affected your life this year?
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Wow, I've learned to be able to function without sleep. I've learned
that tired has taken on an entirely new meaning. And on top of that, now -- before I was
very good at being able to -- and I had to learn how to do it also with Allison, but we
had to learn to -- there's a time for golf and there's a time for your wife. And before,
because we were both so serious about golf, that was kind of all we did. You know, it was
easy for us to be able to go away from the golf course, talk about golf or think about
golf, and we thought we were separate. We thought that we were keeping the two independent
of each other. We weren't even close. And now this is making me really learn how to take
golf off the focus. You know, you go to work and you do your job and when you leave --
he's five months old. He doesn't know that I just shot 76. He doesn't show that I shot 64.
He doesn't care. The only thing that he knows and the only thing he wants is that if he's
upset, if I can comfort him or I can play with him. And the only thing that Allison needs
right now is to -- she has taken to motherhood so well and does such a wonderful job with
him, the only thing I can try to do is be supportive for her and I try to help her when I
can. And if I'm sitting there worried about golf, or worried about a shot that I hit on
No. 17, I'm not being a very good husband or a very about father. And I figured that out
the hard way the first part of the year. We tried to travel with him too young, and you
can't do it. It stressed me out. It bothered me. Allison and I were -- you know, on pins
and needles with each other, and you've got to learn to separate the three. So it's
changed me drastically. I'm a much different person, I think, especially now that golf is
just not nearly as important to me. It's still important, but it's not the most important
thing.  
 
Q. What's your son's name again?
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Harrison.  
 
Q. Junior or Second or the Third? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: He's William Harrison and I'm Richard Harrison.  
 
Q. William was your father's --
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: My mom doesn't have a problem. My father has a hard time calling him
Harrison because I'm Harrison to him. He calls him Will, but now everybody has the new
nickname they are calling him, Shrub. My nickname is Bush, just for a long time ago so
instead of -- when he first -- we had a football we were signing and everybody was saying,
"To Baby Bush," you know, and they would sign it. And I think Justin heard the
story and he goes, "Baby Bush? Why doesn't you just call him Shrub?" So Justin
gave him the nickname Shrub, and that's kind of stuck. That's what my dad calls him now.
And hopefully it won't stick forever. Who knows.  
 
Q. How about Hunter and Hogan? How are they taking it? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: They do great with them. They are very gentle. We really worried about
it. We had some really good advice from friends who also had dogs; that when you come home
from the first couple nights, bring a blanket and hat just give it to them. Don't make
them feel like it's something they can't touch; don't make them feel like it's something
they can't be around. They will get used to the smell. They tore up the first blanket, but
by the next night, they kind of sniffed it and said, no big deal. The first thing we did
when we got home, sat the dogs down and put the baby out in front of them and let them
kind of nose him and smell him and sniff him and they forgot about it. And now they --
Hunter has taken on a pretty protective role of him. If he's sitting in his bouncy seat or
jumper something like that he gets a little upset, Hunter will walk over lick him and sit
next to him. He smiles now when he sees them and he'll just sit there. They are going to
be his best friends, you know. And they are great with him. They have never once , you
know even as much as put a paw on him. And so it's been a big relief for us. 
 
Q. What kind of dogs do you guys have?
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Labradors, chocolate labs. They are wonderful dogs. Wonderful
demeanors. You know, in a couple years when he starts pulling on their ears and pulling on
tails, I don't think they will ever turn on him, ever. And that's the big reassurance.  
 
Q. Do you think making golf less important actually makes your golf better? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I don't know. Maybe I should have -- I shouldn't say less important. I
should just say that it's not -- it's not all-consuming. I don't dwell on it. You know,
there's a time and a place for me to go do my job. And golf now is not something that I
can just pick up on a whim and do now. I've got to be able to go and when I go to the golf
course, I need to have a plan of what I'm going to do. I need to go and focus, and now
I've realized that I get more concentrated work when I go. I get myself done quicker,
faster because I want to go spend time with him and Allison. I don't sit around and waste
time as much anymore. And so I think that it's helped me that way. But also, I think that
it's helped, just in the fact that it's taken the pressure off. You know, when I'm playing
a round, if I look up and see him and Allison on 18 green, you know, all of the sudden I
could care less if I'm 1-over par or 4-under. It all gets put into place real quick. 
 
Q. Were they both in New Orleans?
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: They were. Allison went to get him on -- before I hit my tee shot on
17. She went to go get him. And she came back and saw that I had made the double on 17 and
by the time I walked off the green, I walked over and he was passed out asleep. He could
have cared less. The excitement, I guess he -- I don't know, I guess he was just
emotionally spent off the double-bogey. Who knows.  
 
Q. But Allison didn't actually see it? 
 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: She didn't see it. She went to the day care center, which is right
there on site, which they have computers there. I guess she just didn't -- I think she
might have looked when she was there and saw that had happened. And she was upset about
it. She was hurt by it, and that's part of it. She shares the dream as much as I do. But
it was nice to see them there. You know, nice to have them there, whether I won or lost.
And I hope they will be there a lot more.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT