ATP Tour World Championship
November 28, 1998
Hans Huber
Dr. Yves Jean
Patrick McEnroe
Mark Miles
Gopal Pingali
Peter De Tagyos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HARALD KETTENBACH: Good morning, Ladies and Gentlemen. Welcome to Lucent and ATP Tour's
launch of LucentVision, the first real-time visual information system for sports
broadcasting. Some of you may have noticed that there is something different compared to
the years before in particular when you watch events on ZDF or Eurosport, ESPN, whatever
other channels we have that are covering the World Championship here in Hannover. You
might eventually also have wondered what this little logo, Lucent Bell Labs, stands for.
We're here today to explain what LucentVision is. We'll try to make this a bilingual press
conference, since I assume we'll have certain German- and English-speaking reporters in
the audience. I'll switch back and forth between German and English. Let me introduce
quickly the speakers by running order: Mark Miles, Peter De Tagyos, then we have Patrick
McEnroe to commentate on the brief video that we have prepared for you. Then Hans Huber of
Lucent Germany will basically tell you what this means for Lucent in Germany and in
Europe. Obviously, we're very honored to have the creators of this new technology here
with us. I am very pleased to introduce Dr. Gopal Pingali and Dr. Yves Jean. Now, Mark,
will you go ahead.
MARK MILES: Thank you. I'm not sure if I'm properly miked, but hopefully I'll be able
to project. Good morning, and thank you for being with us. I hope you all didn't work too
late last night or play too hard because we hope you're awake. It's our view that this
morning's announcement for those of us that are here is going to be memorable, especially
as the years go forward and we look back on this morning. There is that chance that ten
years from now, those of us in this room will think back on the announcement of this
relationship this morning in terms of its significance for tennis, particularly tennis on
television, much like some of us think of the invention of the telephone for
communications today. It has potentially profound impact on our sport. We are here to
announce that Lucent Technologies, a company of enormous historical accomplishment and
value in the marketplace today, and human scientific potential that's impossible at least
for me to describe, has agreed to become the official technology partner of the ATP Tour.
For some time, the Tour has been determined to do whatever we can do to find ways to
improve upon, to enhance, the television viewer's appreciation for tennis. I think to most
of us, despite the excellent work of the commentators on television in our sport, it's
been clear that the power, the athleticism, the beauty, the mano-a-mano nature of our
competition that you feel in the hall in that front row seat does not always perfectly
come across to the viewer of television at home. We believe that that's something that can
be addressed, it's something that can be done. Two years ago Lucent Technologies took that
challenge to their pool of 24,000 worldwide, and already we have results, which are
showing up on this week's coverage of the World Championships on ZDF, Eurosport, ESPN and
international television worldwide. With Lucent Technologies, we could not have found a
better technology partner. This is a 128-year-old company that continues to represent the
cutting edge. This is the company that brought us the telephone, the first digital
computer, the transistor, the first projector that made talkies possible. I'm sure John
Parsons might remember. You'll have to fill me in on that in a little bit. But more
importantly, in today's context, this is the company that's brought us the Telestar
Communications Satellite, HD-TV, and the world's first all-plastic transistor. This is the
company that stands for innovation and quality. We are proud that they saw men's
professional tennis and a relationship with the ATP Tour as the best sport to showcase
publicly the potential and their applications which can be developed which will have
impact on our sport, particularly the way we convey ourselves to fans. We could not be
more excited about this relationship. I think you'll see how tangible the results are
already. When you know more about the company, I believe you'll see why I said at the
beginning that we may very well look back on this relationship years from now as a
threshold breakthrough day for our sport. Thank you. 
HARALD KETTENBACH: Thanks, very much, Mark.
PETER DE TAGYOS: Let me just apologize, I lost my voice completely two days ago, and my
wife isn't even here to enjoy it. I apologize if I don't come across well. About two years
ago, we set up a tennis court in the middle of the cafeteria at Lucent Bell Labs
headquarters in New Jersey, just to make our friends from the ATP feel a little bit more
at home. Among the folks that were there that day were J. Wayne Richmond from the ATP
Tour; Dennis Denninger from ESPN; Ivan Blumberg from ProServ/Marqee Group; and
representing commentators and players, we were fortunate enough to have Patrick McEnroe
and Brian Gottfried with us. Lucent was looking for some unique ways to increase our
global brand awareness, and we were also looking for a way to demonstrate our core
competency, which we believe is innovation. We thought that the ATP Tour was the ideal
partner, so we invited them to bring to our scientific community what they felt was the
most significant challenge that the game had in their view that might be impacted by
technology. The ATP told us what they were really looking for was in some way to enable
fans, as well as even occasional viewers, to be able to better feel the speed and the
athleticism of tennis while it's being broadcast. They were also looking for ways to
enable the media and commentators to help viewers to better understand and appreciate the
game so they might enjoy it more. Well, that was fundamentally the challenge that was laid
out to the Bell Lab scientists that were assembled around that tennis court as they
watched Patrick and Brian show off some of the speed and some of the beauty of the game.
We then, within the next few days, using some of our communications technologies, were
able to share that challenge with 24,000 scientists in 20 countries around the world. We
asked them for any ideas they may have based on the various areas of research that they
were involved in. We received well over a hundred ideas. We put together a blue ribbon
panel of scientists from various disciplines and narrowed that down to a handful of
projects. This week at the ATP World Singles Championships, you're seeing the first of
what we hope to be a series of broadcast enhancements. We call it LucentVision. What it
really is, is the first visual information system that's been developed for sports
television broadcasts - and this is the difference - that operates in real-time. It allows
the commentator to enable the viewer to see the player's court coverage at any point in
the match, typically at the end of a set or whatnot, it really illustrates the player's
strategy or the shifts in strategy, and it does so very easily and graphically. Because
it's a visual database, it can be accessed at any point in the match by the broadcaster,
and really allows the commentator, we hope, to bring added life graphically to the
analysis that they've been sharing with the viewer. The other interesting thing is that
the technology of LucentVision allows us to capture some additional statistical
information that's never been available before, things like the distance traveled by a
player during a match, their acceleration, their foot speed, and obviously that can
conjure some interesting comparisons when we talk about players who have been out on the
Tour for a while having lost a step. Once you begin to archive this data, you'll be able
to see whether they truly have lost a step or everyone else just got faster. We're hoping
to provide the LucentVision maps, and there are some from the video that we're going to
show on the back table. If you haven't gotten one, I hope you pick one up. We plan on
having these distributed along with the ATP post-match statistics for the members of the
media as well as coaches and players. We're going to begin doing that next year with the
Mercedes Super 9 tournaments as well as the ATP World Championships in singles and
doubles. Because the maps and the other statistics can be archived because they're in data
form, there's a possibility that members of the media, commentators, even coaches and
players might be able to use these maps for post-match analyses. Frankly, it's even
possible that, looking at archival data of past matches, they might even be able to
prepare for upcoming matches with some of this data. All of it being in digital form
allows us also to very easily download it to the ATP website anytime we want to, including
real-time during the tournament. In a minute, you'll see some of the footage that was put
together by Jonathan Marks of the ATP Tour that shows some of the LucentVision as it's
been used and some footage from the commentator briefing from Tuesday, then we'll hear
from Patrick, who has a unique perspective as a player and commentator, and from our point
of view almost as importantly as a founding member of this innovation partnership starting
two years ago. But before I do that, I wanted to just give you an idea of some of the
things that we are planning on introducing over the next few years, obviously as quickly
as possible, and it will be done in cooperation with the ATP Tour and broadcasters' input
and commentators' input. Some of the innovations that we're considering include virtual
replays of points from any position in the stadium, including the perspective of either
one of the players, virtual replays that show the ball's trajectory, angle and spin on
every single shot. If you think about that, if you're watching a match and someone just
has a fabulous kick serve, the kind that loops around, kicks, then takes off in that
direction, it's an ace, immediately after that point, we'll be able to have a virtual
replay, turn the court around and let the viewer feel and see what it would be like to
receive exactly the serve that they just saw. Because so much of this is a digital visual
database, one of the things that's terrific is instant retrieval of any clip, any video,
any replay can be done instantaneously basically at any time. Because appreciation and
feel is based on sight and sound as well as touch - and touch of course we haven't figured
out how to involve - but we're also looking at sound with the idea of enhanced acoustics.
We're looking at some new directional array microphones that will be locked into the
flight of the ball with the idea of having the viewer at home truly hear the ball coming
off the racquet just the way a player does. If any of you play, you know what kind of a
cue that is. You can hear the spin before you actually see it. Lastly, we're experimenting
with the development of a very novel wide-angle type camera that will provide a courtside
view of the entire court. We think that this has the possibility for some terrific footage
we think of some of the lightning fast exchanges at net, especially during doubles
matches. But let me finish up with a couple of thoughts. One is, on behalf of Lucent, we
are absolutely delighted to be the global innovation partner of the ATP Tour going
forward. I hope you'll forgive me, especially Harald I hope you'll forgive me, and Hans,
for using an American slang expression, but please stay tuned because you ain't seen
nothin' yet. What I'd like to do now, I'd love to introduce the video that I mentioned
earlier that begins with coverage of the commentators' briefing on Tuesday, and ends with
some of the LucentVision maps from I believe last night, chronicles the background on this
with a few bits by our friends here, I call them the dynamic duo from the labs, Dr.
Pingali and Dr. Yves Jean. They're here to answer any technical questions you may have
later on. After the video, Patrick will share some of his ideas from all the unique
perspectives that only he can bring to this. Thank you. (Video shown.)
HARALD KETTENBACH: Patrick, will you carry on.
PATRICK McENROE: Thank you. I just remember two years ago when I went to Lucent when we
did our presentation there, we were surrounded on the court by all these geniuses, I guess
we could call them, who were very interested in our game, our sport. Basically what we did
was we just brainstormed. We spent an hour, hour and a half, Brian Gottfried and I hitting
some balls on this makeshift court, saying, "Wouldn't it be nice if we could do this,
if we could do that," just coming up with ideas, which in essence is still what we're
doing. We're trying to come up with more ways of creating interest really, giving us as
commentators more to talk about, giving you guys in the print media more to write about. I
remember I think it was Gopal in there watching us, saying, "Sometimes I sit at home
and I make believe I'm playing against the other player, I move around and I think I have
to go over here." The fact that these guys were able to actually come up with
something to start to show that, and I think we see in this, in what's been developed so
far, some of us being tennis experts, it's fairly straightforward, we know they're
spending most of the time in this part of the court. But for actually people watching at
home, it gives them something visually to see, it gives them a way of feeling like they're
a little more a part of the action, and also I found at least in following a lot of
sports, the more information people have, the more interest there is in the sport. I think
the key from all of this, in talking with Gopal and Yves throughout the week, is that
there's so much more that we can do, there's so much more that they can do. To think
they've come up with this already in two short years, I think that leaves a lot of room
for the future and for where this technology can go. As I said in one of the bits in the
video, it's figuring out what the tendencies are of players, what they tend to do at
crucial times. Do they pass down the line 75 percent of the time? Do they like to serve in
a certain area when they're down breakpoint? All those things in the future I think we'll
be able to come up and see firsthand. From my perspective as a player and a commentator,
it gives us more to talk about, more information to throw out there to viewers. In my
mind, it can really only go forward. I think the reception I've got from everyone at
Lucent has been, "There's so much we can do." The more we communicate with each
other and exchange ideas, we'll actually be able to see more and more technology, more and
more ways of getting people interested in tennis, which really at the end of the day is
what this is all about.
HARALD KETTENBACH: Thanks, Patrick. Let's come to the closing remarks from Mr. Hans
Huber, then obviously we're very happy to take any questions we might have. Hopefully you
won't have to leave this room having any open questions, otherwise my colleague of the ATP
Tour, Fran Michelman, and I are happy to try to accommodate any interview requests or
questions we might have. Hans Huber.
HANS HUBER: Thank you, very much. I will present my speech in my native language.
(Presentation given in German.)
HARALD KETTENBACH: Thank you, very much, Gentlemen. Please feel free to ask any
questions you might have.

Q. Could I ask, as far as this technology is concerned, is it going to be something
that will be offered to broadcasters worldwide? Will there be a cost to the broadcasters?
Are we talking just the Super 9's and the ATP Championships? Could we see this, for
example, in Australia with the tournaments that will be there leading up to the Australian
Open?

PETER DE TAGYOS: Frankly, we're going to try to begin, as I indicated, with the
Mercedes Super 9, singles and doubles, ATP World Championships in '99. As we perfect the
system and as we add more enhancements to it, that is one of the things that's being
contemplated. Obviously, one of the areas at least in those tournaments through the ATP's
world feed, a number of these things will be possible to the broadcasters, as they are
this week. We haven't really discussed other non-ATP tournaments at the moment. But I'm
sure that the ATP, along with Lucent, will be interested in chatting with appropriate
broadcasters as well as tournaments about that.

Q. You indicated that it may not be too long before we can actually watch a serve
coming towards us, how much the ball moves. Will that be a moving indicator or a fixed
line at the end of it or both?

PETER DE TAGYOS: Actually, and correct me if I'm wrong, if I overstate this, but I'm in
charge of nontechnical-ese, and they're in charge of really telling you what it can do,
but what I've seen so far in the initial work that they've done, you will actually be able
to see the court, you will be able to see the ball move, and they can vary the speeds, but
first they can orient you to whatever point of view you would like, then literally the one
that I've seen took a kick serve, and you could watch it come, hit and go by. Obviously,
for me, because I'm old and I don't see well, they played it very slow. Then when they
played it at the real live speed, you really got an appreciation for, "My God, how do
they see it, no less hit it?" So it can be both.

Q. At the end of it, there could be a fixed line, could be used photographically?

PETER DE TAGYOS: Absolutely. Absolutely.
HARALD KETTENBACH: If there are no more questions, obviously these gentlemen are still
around for a little while. If you wish to join us on a cup of coffee and discuss anything
that comes to your mind in more detail, feel free to do so. Otherwise, we wish you a very
interesting day at the tournament, and obviously very thrilling games in these semifinals.
Thanks, very much, for spending so much time with Lucent Technologies and the ATP Tour.
Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT