U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel like you are playing right now?

MARY PIERCE: Not too bad actually. It was hard to say in my first match because there
was a lot of wind. It is really hard to say too today because I felt like the match was a
little bit easier than I expected I didn't know her at all. So I was expecting a hard
match. It was fairly easy and she hit a lot of short balls which is great for my game so I
can come forward and put the ball away, so you know, today's match I never really felt
under pressure or, you know, that I had to do anything special to win, so, you know-- but
I think I am serving well overall. I am pretty happy.

Q. Mary, is it better for you this way when the attention is going to other players,
specifically, Monica, you just move through relatively at a quieter pace?

MARY PIERCE: I mean, first of all, I don't really pay very much attention to it even if
there is a lot of attention on me or not. I basically am, more or less, the same because I
try and block everything out, but definitely it makes it easier because you know you are
going to have people expecting so much of you, I guess, they have got something else that
they are preoccupied with, so I am more low key and I can just play my game and each
match.

Q. How about your own expectations?

MARY PIERCE: For myself?

Q. Yeah, for here.

MARY PIERCE: You know, I go into every tournament the same. Of course, Grand Slams are
bigger and they are more important. You know, from the player's standpoint they are a lot
bigger tournament. I go into every tournament believing that I work hard and I feel that I
have the game on any day to beat anybody, but in tennis, you never know what can happen.
So, you know, in other words, I guess, I believe I can win, you always have to believe you
can, but, you know, there are a lot of tough players who are playing well now. So I just
take it a match at a time.

Q. Does your success in Australia seem like a long time ago? What has it been like
because you have had, I understand, some injuries and some problems? Does it seem like a
long time ago, that success?

MARY PIERCE: Well, I mean, I can kind of remember the whole tournament, you know, not
just the final, the whole tournament, it does feel like it was kind of a while ago. This
year has been very busy, yeah, I guess for me even though I have been injured and sick, so
a lot has happened and even if I haven't played as many tournaments and as many matches, I
think I still improved and still learned a lot, as far as experience.

Q. Mary, Hingis just beat Maleeva on stadium. You played her in Canada. Can you tell us
about her game and where it is at this point? Was that a terrific match for you?

MARY PIERCE: Well, that day was just a perfect day that. Was probably the best of the
match of the year I played. I didn't really see the match. I just saw one point. Maggie
just hit a forehand out. So it is really hard. I can't really say I was surprised because
I really didn't know who was going to win that match. I knew it would be tough for both
those players.

Q. Mary, Steffi is going through a lot of problems off-court, obviously. One, have you
spoken to her at all and secondly, do you have any empathy or advice for her to go through
this tough time?

MARY PIERCE: Well, I think definitely it is a hard time for her right now. Hard, of
course, I guess when you go on the court to just concentrate on your match because you
have a lot of other things on your mind going on. And I mean, she is tough. Steffi is a
very tough person of course; that is why she is No. 1, so I think that it is hard, but I
think she is handling it well.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT