PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 26, 1998
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Why is she so difficult for you to play? 
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, she is a player who can change the pace really well.
Obviously, she played pretty good. I have some chances in the first set, I never should
have let her come into the match. But I make too many unforced errors. I tried to go for
too much, and I make a lot of mistakes. I let her to come back, and she is -- I lost the
first set, and she just take more advantage of that, and for me it was hard because it was
so hard with the bugs to play and also with the humidity. I couldn't hold my racket too
much. I was sweating a lot. But besides that, I don't think it is a reason why I lost, but
I think I make too many unforced errors. She played much more consistant than myself. 
 
Q. The mic wasn't on. Could you repeat that part of the answer because we didn't get it
back here for television. The microphone wasn't on.
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I just said that she was much more consistant than myself. I
make probably too many unforced errors, and I was sweating a lot. It was hard with the
bugs to play, but that was not the reason why I lost. But it makes it more difficult to
play with those conditions. 
 
Q. What happened in the tiebreaker? There was an overturned call that seemed to bother
you.
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Very close calls. Obviously, when you think you won the point
and they overrule it, sometimes it is hard. But that is happening and probably affect me a
little bit. But I just tried to continue be focused. Like I say, she was better than me
and probably I makes too many errors. 
 
Q. How much of a disappointment is this going into the Open?
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I guess I would prefer to stay in the tournament because
more matches you play the better. But I will -- I am still in doubles so I can probably --
still in the doubles, play there and practice and get ready for the Open. And, I have a
great two weeks before I came here so I played enough matches and I will try to continue
to be 100% for the open. 
 
Q. You played her before all of her injuries. Now you have played her after. Is she
about the same player she was before she went through everything last year?
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yeah, I mean, she is playing the same. Obviously, she is just
recovering from a lot of injuries, but she is just pretty similar player. Her weapon is
her forehand so she is just going for her shot and today make she make a lot of winners
and a lot of points. But I think I probably lost my concentration. And, in the first set
when I was up and I let her come into the match, that was a big mistake for myself.
Probably that happens if you make a lot of errors and you let the other people come, then
it makes it more dangerous and she could take advantage of that. 
 
Q. You were saying a while ago had you a couple of good tournaments. Is it easy to put
this result to one side or could it have any sort of effect in your confidence going into
the Open?
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I don't think so. Because obviously I would have preferred
to, like I said, to stay in the tournament, but I mean, it is not nice when you lose. But
I know what I did wrong, so I will try not to do that the next time. Obviously I can have
a few days to prepare for the Open. That is what I am looking for and I will try to take
the positive thing that I did and not -- and learn from the negative thing, but I don't
think it will affect me too much for the Open. I will try to get the same concentration
for the Open. 
 
Q. Have you ever played with so many bugs on-court like that?
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. But it is very difficult and very uncomfortable and it is
very hard to play with those conditions. 
 
Q. They weren't biting at all, were they?
 
 ARANXTA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Yes, they were biting. Very badly. And the more you were
sweating, the more they were coming to you, so, I sweat a lot, so I have all my dress and
I was going into my hair and my hands, all over my body was covered with bugs. So it is
obviously hard because even you cannot hold your racket so much, it is difficult to play
like that. But I tried to concentrate, but it was not enough. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT