U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Any different playing as defending champion?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: It was nice to come back and play the first match on Center
Court, and I think it is always, you know, the beginning is always the toughest one, but I
feel good, and to be able to play yesterday on the same court. And I feel very good, and I
think it was an easy match today, but I feel very comfortable.

Q. Do you feel like the defending champion? I mean, obviously, there is all the talk
about Monica back and Steffi and everything like that. Do you feel that you are being
treated as the defending champion here?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think it is normal that all the attention is on Monica. I
mean, she is back and after two years, I think, you know, she is doing a great job, and it
is normal that all the attention is on her. It is better in some ways for me because it
will take the pressure off for me. I know the attention is on Steffi and Monica. I don't
think about that. I just try -- in a lot of ways, it can help me, and I am feeling, you
know, very good. And I am just trying to concentrate; play match by match and give my best
and what happens, happens. That is all.

Q. Do you think she will be the one that you will be facing at the end to defend your
title? Obviously, you will get right through all the finals --

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think it is too early to talk about it because the
tournament just start. But it would be great, definitely, if I get there, and I have to
play her or Steffi, that would be also great. I mean, I think that it is much more
competition, and it is much better for tennis and makes it more interesting, you know,
definitely can help me in a lot of ways.

Q. Is it true that you were upset by the way that Monica came back and got the No. 2
ranking?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No. No, because I don't know where that comes from, but it has
been a lot of talking and I only said that it is great that she is coming back. And, I
mean, she was No. 1 when everything happened to her, and I think it is great. Like I say,
makes more competition. It is better for the game. So that is all I say, and I will say it
again now. But I mean, I don't know where that idea come from because I did not say
anything like that.

Q. Have you spoken to her since she came back?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Not much. I mean, I did see her a little bit in Canada, and I
saw her a little bit here, and we talk a little bit. And I just, you know, first time I
saw her, I welcomed her and it was nice to see her back, but I didn't have the chance to
talk more with her. I mean, we don't have the same schedule, but probably, you know, maybe
within the days maybe we can get together more.

Q. But, Arantxa, it is a fact that because she is back, you fall into a tougher draw in
this tournament as a No. 3 instead of a No. 2, so that has got to disturb you at some
level?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, doesn't matter because normally, I mean, if I would be
second seeded, I would have to face her or Steffi probably in the final, but now it would
be a lot earlier, but I don't think it affects to me. I just think that -- I think it is
great that she is back and if you want to be the best player, you have to beat everybody
and now she is back, so we will have to face her. I will be ready. If I have to face
Steffi, I will also be ready. So it is nothing else to talk about anymore and it makes
more excitement, and it is better. That is what is important. If you want to be the best,
you have to beat everybody.

Q. Have you seen her play? Have you watched her play in Canada?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I saw her a little bit, so maybe I have to see her play more
here. So I saw her a little bit, few games.

Q. Will you watch her match tonight?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, if I will not have nothing to do, then I will watch it.
But, I mean, it is a two-week tournament, and if I don't see her today, and if she wins,
then maybe I have a chance to see her another time.

Q. What would you say to people who say, look, Monica came back, she won so easily, in
Canada; she beat three or four top 20 players without losing a set and that this is a
commentary on the witness of the field in women's tennis; that there is not much depth in
it.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think, I mean, everybody knows that if she was going
to come back she was going to come strong, that is for sure. She is coming back playing
great tennis, and I mean, she did great job, coming and playing the first tournament and
beat everybody like she did, and I think, you know, demonstrates that that is why she was
No. 1 before and probably, you know, in two-week tournament it is probably different, but
she is ready. She show everybody that she is coming back strong and the rest I don't think
there is so much to talk about.

Q. Has this been a good year for you with the three Slam finals or has it been a
disappointing year since you have lost and haven't won in any of the finals, the Slam
finals?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, I mean, even if I didn't win as many tournaments as I did
in 1994, I think it has to be positive because it is getting three Grand Slam finals and
probably, you know, the last two has been the closest one I probably can -- couldn't win
it, but I have to be happy and I am probably, you know, I can play better than I did, so
far during the whole year, but I have to be, you know, satisfied with the year that I have
so far and now just keep going and continue playing my best.

Q. You lost a couple of matches you would have expected to won in California. Was there
a particular reason why that happened?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I have to change from grass to clay to hard court, but
besides that, I think that those tournaments helped me to get, you know, in a better shape
to come here. What I was looking for was to come, you know, in a very good feeling to the
U.S. Open and the matches that I played helped me and even though I have some losses
before, but nothing happened, I just think that, you know, thinking tournament by
tournament and probably the Grand Slams I did very well this year and that is probably,
you know, I can-- you can be more focused on it.

Q. Have you trained differently because of the fact that Seles is coming back to the
tournament? Have you made some kind of adjustment or preparation for that?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: No, because I just try to probably to continue having the same
work as I have been doing and it has been successful and try to just concentrate and play
my game and that is all. I am not, you know, thinking about what the others they are going
to do or not. I just -- I try to give my best and that is all I am thinking now. 

Q. Why have you been so successful in the Slams? Do you think there is something -- is
there something that you think you are doing on the court or mentally or -- to reach three
Grand Slam finals.

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Everything is a factor. If you are not ready mentally for two
weeks; then it is harder to maintain your best level and like I always say, I try to go
match by match because, you know, that -- it helps me in a lot of ways and I am trying to,
you know, get better matches I play and probably I always always have the feeling that
physically and mentally I am ready and preparing for these events and it is a great
feeling to see the success and winning and getting so close, only two players get to the
final and if you win, much better, but if you are getting close and you do the right
thing, probably you can continue being as success as I did then.

Q. Are you a better player than you were last year, do you think, twelve months ago,
here at the Open?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: I think I improve my serve and my volley is much better and my
aggressive game is improved on hard court, so that gives me more confidence to be able to
play better in different surface and I think, you know, I become a better player in trying
to improve those aspects of the game to get more confidence and it is working really well
so far.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT