BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 22, 2000
Matt Gogel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATT GOGEL: Okay, well, I started out the 1st hole, not that great of a drive down the
right side, and I had to pretty much play out to the fairway, punch out. I left myself
with about 100 yards. And for my third shot, hit it about 15, 20 feet and missed it for
par; so I bogeyed the 1st hole, which is a pretty good hole out here. One of the longer
holes on this golf course. And then No. 2, I came right back with a good drive down the
fairway, and I think I hit a 9-iron to about, oh, eight feet or so and made the putt for
birdie; so I was right back to even. And parred 3 and 4. No. 5, I hit a shot that got long
on me. I thought I hit a pretty good shot in there, but it ended up about 60 feet behind
the hole, and made the putt. So that was kind of a big turnaround, really kind of an
unexpected birdie. And then I played pretty solid from there on. Made some pars: 7, 8, 9.
Went to the back nine, on 10, and hit an 8-iron from 172 yards to about 10 feet; made the
putt for birdie. So that was -- I wasn't playing that great. I wasn't really that steady,
wasn't really that calm, but now I was at 2-under par and kind of felt like I was moving
in the right direction. I think the next birdie I had was 12, par 3. I hit an 8-iron in
there to about 7 or 8 feet and made the putt. Really felt like my game was getting much
more solid. I had hit several greens in regulation and had birdie putts in the last four
or five holes. Missed birdie on 13, the par 5. Missed a fairly makeable birdie on 14 from
about 15 feet. And then on 15, I hit it about eight feet from the hole, and made the putt
-- well it was about 10 feet from the hole or so, and made the putt for birdie. Then it
was kind of a 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 -- we had, which is what you're going to expect out
here, but I was waiting probably 15 minutes on every tee shot. I knew I was doing pretty
well in the tournament, and I was kind of anxious, and the wait certainly didn't help,
especially a guy that's kind of new to this arena, that I'm standing there having to think
about every tee shot or every shot. I don't think it will be that way tomorrow, but it was
a different type of -- I wouldn't say pressure, but I was building anxiety. And when I get
up to hit the shot, what's generally going to happen, you're not going to hit that great
of a shot. You're going to be probably pretty quick with the swing. So I steered it in.
You know, 16, I got up-and-down out of a bunker made about a 10-foot par putt. And then
17, hit a 4-iron short of the green, chipped it up to about 15 feet, and missed the putt,
made bogey. And then on 18, drove it in the left rough, and really didn't have a whole lot
of options, other than kind of punching it through there. And it got caught up in the
rough and really wasn't that good of a shot. My third shot on the par 5, most people are
reaching in two with ease; I had about 190 to the hole. I hit a 7-iron up, oh, 30 feet,
and I'm really looking to make a par. And I hit a really good putt; left it just short of
the hole. And, you know, I think other players probably are going through a little bit of
what I'm going through, four days with the amateurs. It's a helluva lot of fun, but I
think we're all kind of ready to be paired together and go out and play and maybe not have
as many distractions. But 68 on this golf course, I think, is a good score. I don't think
it's good enough for tomorrow, but I'll work on a few things tonight and get ready for
tomorrow; and hopefully, have a chance to come down the stretch and win the golf
tournament and do a little bitter than I did today.

Q. In your wildest dreams, did you ever imagine that after four rounds of the Hope you
would be just one shot off the lead and you'd be ahead of David Duval? 

MATT GOGEL: You know, I've been playing golf, professional golf, for five years now; so
it's not like I'm in awe of everybody I'm playing around. But maybe the second tournament
out, I didn't expect to be doing this well. I felt like it would be a growing process out
here for a few weeks, and it still will be. But my strength is really not shooting a whole
lot under par. I usually play more difficult golf courses, better, and this week, I've
just been -- I've been hitting the ball well enough and giving myself chances to make
putts and make birdies. I obviously haven't thought that if I shot a 68, I would be one
shot off the lead. I can calm myself down and realize that I didn't shoot myself out of
the golf tournament. That's what you really don't want to do on Saturday. The tournaments
I won on the Nike Tour -- I thought Saturday was the most difficult round of the week
because it's the round you can kind of lose a golf tournament if you don't play very well.
But I'm right there in it, and I kind of know what to expect of myself tomorrow. It's a
long day, and there's going to be a lot of guys shooting some pretty good scores. So I
hope I'm one of them. 

Q. And it begs the question: Obviously, you said 68 is not going to do it. What do you
think will? 

MATT GOGEL: I think that -- you know, really I just had a chance to look at the
scoreboard. I think there's four guys at 21 (-under) and myself at 22 ( -under). You know,
anybody from 20-under par, 19-under par really has a chance because if they shoot 7 or 8 (
-under), there's a number to shoot for. I would think that 27 (-under) would be a really
good number, 28 ( -under). Hell, I'd like to get to 30 (-under) and not have to worry
about it. But I would say 27 (-under) would be a pretty good number to reach for. 

Q. Matt, is winning, winning, no matter where it is? 

MATT GOGEL: Absolutely. You know, the money really hasn't entered my mind. I think more
than anything, I want to win so bad that I've got to relax, and if it's my day, it will
happen. You know, guys are going to play -- I know guys are going to play well tomorrow.
So it's not like I can go out and just kind of slop it around and try to shoot 2- or
3-under and try to win the golf tournament because that is not going to happen. Wining is
winning, and there's a lot that goes on with it out here on this Tour. I've just got to be
patient and do what I've been doing the best this week, and that's give myself
opportunities on the greens for birdie.

Q. You said 68 on this golf course wasn't such a bad score. Is the golf course just
playing difficult? Is it the wind? What's making it tough for guys? 

MATT GOGEL: You know, you can shoot a good round. I imagine there's been some 6-, 7- ,
8-under pars at this golf course, but you have to do a lot of good things. And there is --
you know, the greens are reasonably firm, so it's kind of hard to get the ball close to
the hole. I think tomorrow you're going to probably find some pretty good pin placements;
so we'll just kind of have to see what the golf course gives you. But this is a golf
course, unlike the other three, that you really have to kind of position the ball around
the golf course. I mean, there's long holes; there's shot holes. Only three 3 par 5s, and
only one of them is reachable, and that's the 18th hole. So you never know. Everybody is
kind of going to be having to fight the emotions of trying to win a golf tournament
tomorrow. But it's a guy that -- probably someone at 21-under par, 20-under par, 19-under
-- is really going to try to post a low score tomorrow.

Q. How much does winning -- how much does the Nike Tour victories, how much of that
takes the pressure off for helping you move in this direction, winning on this Tour?

MATT GOGEL: I think that -- I'll learn tomorrow. I've always felt that you don't have
to do so many spectacular things to win a golf tournament. A lot of people get caught up
thinking if -- you have to win a tournament, you have to shoot 5- , 6- , 7-under par on
Sunday. A lot of times, that's not the case. It's the guy who makes the least amount of
mistakes. In a format like this, so many people so close to the lead, there's going to be
someone trying to post a low score coming out of the back -- from the back of the pack. So
I know that what I need to do to play well tomorrow is worry about myself, and I've done
that successfully on the Nike Tour. So hopefully -- we'll see. But I'll do the same things
that I've done when I've won before. If it's my day and my turn to win, then that will
happen.

Q. With, I guess, four years or so on the Nike tour and six wins, I would assume that
you have been wanting and wanting and wanting to get to this Tour. What is it like in the
first two weeks? Is it what you thought, what you didn't think? 

MATT GOGEL: Well, a lot more people come out to watch the golf tournament, that's for
sure. You know, Hawaii was, I think, a unique event for the Tour, being the fact that it's
Hawaii and not a whole lot of veterans go over there; So a lot of rookies get in. And this
is -- you know, this is a format that's very unique. Maybe the AT&T has got some
resemblance of this type of tournament, and maybe Vegas, but you know, so far, I mean,
I've enjoyed it. But it's a long year, and you know, I'm just trying to play my way
through and kind of get comfortable.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT