THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 17, 2000
Paul Azinger
Notah Begay III
Tom Lehman
Phil Mickelson
Loren Roberts
Kirk Triplett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Paul, could you talk a little bit about being back at this level of competition
after all you've been through and do you think that you're all the way back, so that there
will be more of this kind of thing and more victories in the future? 
 
 PAUL AZINGER: I don't know about that. I am playing a lot better, I played a lot better
all year. 94 I got to co-captain a team, and got to play a pretty active role, because
Hale Irwin was the captain and made the team. I didn't miss that I wasn't playing the
event then. And a great honor. It was a great opportunity, too, to be in that role while I
was here. I never imagined I would play as bad as I played for as long as I played that
bad. Then it got to the point of I thought I'd never return to that level of competition.
But thankfully Kenny picked me. A lot of people think it's only on experience. They asked
me about that. You can have all the experience in the world, but if you're playing lousy
it doesn't do any good. I have played a lot better this year, right from the beginning,
made a bunch of cuts in a row. There was a time when I never thought I'd ever make it back
to any kind of competition like this. I'm really excited about being here.  
 
Q. Phil, could you talk about how important winning is to you this week, and in light
of the fact of how badly you were beaten in Melbourne? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: I think that when we played at last year's Ryder Cup and had such a
positive experience, we -- myself, I felt like I was really looking forward to this event.
I had such a positive experience with the last team event, I couldn't wait for another
team opportunity. And although we lost two years ago, I think the circumstances this year
are having us a little bit more prepared and ready, and wanting to play. I think that to
hold the event halfway around the world at a time where nobody has touched a club for a
month was very difficult for us to get focused up. And granted we took a pretty sound
beating. We want to come back and play well. I think it's awfully nice to play during the
season at a course in the United States. 
 
Q. Will this mean as much beating the International Team as it does winning the Ryder
Cup? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That's hard to say, and I think it's an unfair question. Because the
history of the Ryder Cup has been around 70 or 80 years. And the history of this
tournament has been around for six. I think that's an unfair comparison right now. 
 
Q. How about this comparison for Tom and for Phil, the most experienced in both, what's
the difference when you're playing in a Ryder Cup and playing here in terms of intensity
or desire or anything else on the course? 
 
 TOM LEHMAN: I remember the last time we played here at this course, there was an awful
lot of intensity. It was very much a Ryder Cup-type feel, when Freddie made that long putt
on 17 to beat Vijay. It clinched the match for us. I expect to have some great competition
this week. Tradition is really what separates great golf courses a lot of times from golf
courses that aren't so great. From great tournaments from other not so great tournaments.
But you need to have the experience to build the tradition. I think this tournament, as it
goes on, will build the tradition, and more great matches like we had in '96 will benefit
it that way. I think everybody on this team is very jacked about playing, and there should
be some great competition. 
 
Q. Tom and Phil, for guys who have done both. There's been some talk in Australia there
was some disinterest, that you guys were kind of list also for whatever reason and that
some American players really do not like traveling these distances to play in this event
because you guys do it every year, Europeans and the International Team only do it every
two years. Is there anything to that and could you talk about those two issues? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That's an interesting issue. Let me just say this, kind of side curve
it. I think we're all looking forward to this week. I've been really excited about this
event. I've been looking forward to playing in these team competitions in this different
format, more so than in a long time. Given the fact that we had such a positive experience
at the Ryder Cup it's made these events very enjoyable. And when we lose events like the
Ryder Cup it's hard to -- it's a very emotional and difficult thing to deal with and it's
hard to get excited about playing in them. And because we had such a positive experience,
we're all really looking forward to playing this week. 
 
Q. Just to follow up, though, do you also -- would you look forward to going to South
Africa in 2002 and in Japan in 2006 for this kind of competition? 
 
 TOM LEHMAN: I think the way from what I understand from the way that the Tour is
setting up the schedule and some of the events around The Presidents Cup, for example the
million dollar, the two million dollar and South Africa, it gives -- not just for one
week, you go for two or three weeks and play, which I think is way more appealing. I think
everything in this world of golf is in scheduling. How is it scheduled, when is it
scheduled, what is scheduled around it, so that you're not just kind of just doing a
one-shot deal and going home again. So I would think that most guys would be very much in
favor of going wherever, especially if there were like a schedule of events you could play
around The Presidents Cup. 
 
Q. Forgive me, because I left my notes out there when I ran in when you guys came in,
but Phil you were here in '96, were you not, and Tom, you were here in '96, and Paul, you
were here in '94. I heard there were some really good changes made to the course as far as
the greens and as far as making the course playable, but just as hard. And I wonder if we
could start out with Tom ask Phil and your thoughts there. 
 
 TOM LEHMAN: The course is definitely significantly improved. The 18th hole has been
redone again. That's even better now than it was before. The 15th hole was changed and I
think it's a fantastic change. They rebuilt the 15th green three times, I think it's a
better green. I think all in all the course has improved dramatically and is way more
playable, more receptive to good shots, rewards good shots more fairly. And I think in the
end is just a much better test.  
 PHIL MICKELSON: I certainly was pleased when I saw the changes today. There were a --
there were two things that really stood out. When we played in '94 and '96, you couldn't
hit a driver. The fairways would bottleneck and tighten to such a small area that you had
to hit only 280 off the tee, so a good number of holes we were restricted on what club we
could use off the tee. But I've seen the change in the course now to where the fairways
are the same width at 250 as they are at 350, so now you have an option to hit whatever
club you choose off the tee without having a detrimental effect. And I also thought the
greens were fabulous, because they soft end a lot of the contours that created a funnel
effect. So balls would ultimately funnel right down to the pin like we saw a couple of
shots do on 18. Now you've got to hit a much more precise and better shot to get the ball
close to the hole. And they're also much more fair to putt on. They're very hard and fast
right now. So we will be challenged on the greens, because they're so hard and fast, and
so much slope to them. I thought all the subtleties done to the course made it a much
improved track. 
 
Q. To the guys that are rookies this year, Notah, I've got to know your feeling playing
on the team and the way you earned your way on here. And Loren you're playing so well, and
Kirk, you've got to be really, really excited about being on the team, I wonder if we
could go in that order for answers. 
 
 NOTAH BEGAY III: Well, I'm just excited to be playing in my first International
competition of this magnitude. I'm trying to take in as much as I can, learn as much from
the more experienced players and just kind of keep my mouth shut and go along and play as
well as I can and try and contribute.  
 LOREN ROBERTS: Well, being a captain's choice I'm really excited be being here. Anytime
that someone or somebody thinks enough of you to put you on a team of this magnitude it's
a great honor for me. And definitely -- I definitely feel like I'm ready to play. I've had
some experience and just really looking forward to having a good week.  
 KIRK TRIPLETT: Well, as most of you know I've played for a long time and I've watched a
lot of these guys play in these kind of events. And it's really, really exciting to me to
be a part of it. And a big challenge for me is going to be -- this is a real great thing
for my career, for me to look back on and say I was part of this team. But to take that
attitude and kind of put it aside and now that I'm here it's time to get down to business
and play some good golf and see if we can beat this International Team. I don't know if
you know it, but that's a pretty good team that we're playing against. So we're going to
have to play some good golf. The teams that go to the Super Bowl, they're pretty excited
about getting to the Super Bowl, but one of those teams isn't too happy after the Super
Bowl is over. So it's time for us to think about winning this cup.  
 
Q. Kirk, this is for you. I don't think I've ever seen you in a baseball cap. 
 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: You'd know why if you saw the bucket hats that are sitting in my room.  
 
Q. Well, that was one thing. Do they have a hat for you or are you going to wear a cap?

 
 KIRK TRIPLETT: That's the least of my worries right now. I've got a few of them in the
room; they're kind of a different style from what I normally wear and I put one on last
night and my wife laughed so hard there's no way I could leave the hotel room wearing it.
We're working on that. But it's just more people calling me Tom Lehman (laughter.) I take
that as a compliment. 
 
Q. Phil, you talked earlier about the positive experience you take from the last team
cup. Are you at all looking forward to the fact there might not be as much acrimony as
this week, and why hasn't The Presidents Cup been as bitter as the Ryder Cup? I don't know
if history has as much to do with it -- the history for that probably goes back only to
'87. 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: That's a good question. I don't know why there has been more attention,
I would say, in the Ryder Cup. A lot of it might be that we don't see a lot of the guys on
the Ryder Cup. But we certainly do play with a number of them day in and day out on the
U.S. tour. But the International Team it seems like every single one lives in Orlando and
plays the U.S. tour. So we were good friends with just about everyone on the team. And
it's hard to have much animosity towards your friends, just because you're playing against
them in an international competition one week out of the year. 
 
Q. Do you look forward to part of that aspect this week, that there hasn't been any
bitterness, and we would expect might not be this week. Can you do without it? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Oh, yeah. I think the purpose of the events were to promote goodwill
between continents, primarily in the Ryder Cup 7 years ago, but certainly between the
United States and the rest of the world and to promote awareness for the game. That needs
to be a positive awareness, not create animosity and tension, if you will, but I thought
that this tournament has been very well run and well received the first three years,
especially since it's only been in existence for such a short period of time. And I think
the players from the International side are very professional, as are the players from
Europe. But we know them much better, we feel comfortable around them, and they know that
when we say or do something it's in -- it's not meant to be disruptive and I think that
sometimes in Ryder Cups we don't know each other that well, and sometimes things get
misinterpreted. And I know in the past Seve has been misinterpreted. And things have been
-- and honestly I read a really good article in Golf Digest and he had a chance to explain
his side of some of the Ryder Cup incidents, and it made a lot of sense. And maybe not.  
 PAUL AZINGER: Can you believe that? Were you buying that? (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about your role maybe as a leader on this team, and
particularly in the light of Hal and Tom Paine were leaders in Boston. And now that Paine
is no longer with us, you're taking over. 
 
 PAUL AZINGER: I don't feel like I need to be a strong voice, Ken Venturi is the leader
of this team, and I think we all look to Kenny for wisdom. I want to lead by example with
my clubs, really. I want to play well, that's all I want to do. If somebody needs some
encouragement, Stewart Cink or Notah, or insight, I can volunteer that, I guess. But I
want to just lead with my clubs, I really do. I just want to play good. 
 
Q. Phil, could you extrapolate a little bit on Melbourne when you said that scheduling
was an issue, and Tom, I guess, also, if the scheduling was an issue, what were the other
issues, what were the other problems that occurred and Melbourne to sort of make you guys
kind of flat? And also just as a part B, have you decided what you're going to do about
the match play in Melbourne next year? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: The match play I'm not sure yet. But back to The Presidents Cup in
Australia, we just got pounded. They just flat out beat us. They played great golf. And we
really didn't arrive ready for that type of play. They just out played us from start to
finish, and we got so far behind, and we were not playing well. It was difficult because
we had won the first two, and I think we all expected that we were going to win, and they
just gave us such a licking like no other, I think it's probably the largest defeat in any
International competition. We certainly feel the necessity or the need to come out and
play strong this year, because they do have such a strong team. Their players are so well
recognized internationally, and received as top players in the world that we have to
really play well to beat them. And I think that we can. I think that we want to. I think
that we're ready to. And I think that we welcome the challenge. And two years ago I don't
think we were as ready for the competition as we needed to be. Maybe mentally and
physically, a lot of our games weren't quite ready. We weren't in the mental frame of mind
to win that week. They just played so well and we weren't ready to play that level of
golf. 
 
Q. Would you say that your heart wasn't in as much as theirs was in it?
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: No, that's you saying that. I wouldn't say that. We wanted to win, but
we weren't ready to win. We hadn't prepared ourselves properly. I feel like a lot of guys
have prepared themselves for this week. I came out and played last week, trying to get in
the competitive frame of mind. And a couple of weeks ago David won at Southern Open and so
he's out ready to play. And just -- and Tom went over for International competition at
Scotland. So we're getting ready the best way we can. We didn't have that opportunity to
play competitively the week before or two weeks before when was tournament was staged in
December. It needed to be in December because that's their best weather time in Australia,
we couldn't play during the year, because the weather wasn't accepting to that. But we
weren't as prepared as we needed to be. 
 
Q. Tom, do you have anything to add? 
 
 TOM LEHMAN: I want to say that I know there was a lot of grinding to get onto this
team. You can look right down the list to all of these guys sitting here and the guys
coming in tomorrow, there was a lot of players who were trying really hard to be on this
team, and a lot of guys were disappointed that they're not here. And I think that says a
lot about everyone's desire to be at this tournament this week. And I think it's really
kind of doing the tournament a disservice to focus or try to focus on negative things,
like where was your heart, where was your mind. We're here, we're ready to play. It would
be great to have The Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup trophies on American soil; I think
that's what we're here to do. 
 
Q. Paul, it's so natural just to follow up your little joke about Seve, but do you find
in team competition people look at things differently, and incidents get blown out of
proportion, there's a lot more, if not tension, I don't know what the word is, but you go
after guys a little differently? 
 
 PAUL AZINGER: Well, what people? Like the public, the individual players?  
 
Q. The individual on the other team. 
 
 PAUL AZINGER: You know, with what happened between Seve and I should be water under the
bridge. I don't know why you brought some of that back up. We got past that I thought. But
he wanted to win, I wanted to win. He didn't like some of the things that was happening. I
didn't like some of the things that was happening. And you've got to protect what you
think is right. There's a referee there that monitors and doesn't let anybody get away
with anything. So integrity was never a question. There might have been some mistakes
made. But it's under the microscope. And it's in the highest, purest form of competition.
It's mano e mano. We're head on head. I don't want to celebrate at his expense and he
doesn't want to celebrate at my expense. We defended our turf, so to speak. Unfortunately
everybody saw it. But it's what helped to make the Ryder Cup great, what happened in '99
and a little bit in '91. It's probably gotten out of hand now. There's some animosity
between the European team and the American team. And it's just part of it. I don't know
whether it's good or bad or not, but we're all -- we're not trying to pull anything on
anybody, we're just grinding it out at best we can, and we both -- both sides want to win.
All three sides want to win. We're talking about three different teams now. I felt like
the International Team had a lot to prove the last go around down there on their turf and
they were ready to go. I think the American team had a lot to prove last year at Brookline
and they came out with both guns blazing on Sunday, and over came an insurmountable lead
and hopefully the guns will still be blazing. 
 
Q. Paul or anybody else who might want to take a crack at this. Speaking of things
getting blown out of proportion. Match play, team match play is something that you guys
rarely do, and there was an incident a couple of weeks ago in the Solheim Cup a week ago
with the women where somebody went when they weren't away, and it led to a whole series of
things that turned out to be very controversial. Start with you, Paul, do you have a take
on how that whole thing went down? 
 
 PAUL AZINGER: I didn't see any of it. Tom Lehman and I talked about it last night and
we both were in agreement that bad sportsmanship I guess was the issue there. And if it's
within the rules that you're not supposed to play out of turn, and she played out of turn,
knowingly or unknowingly, then it's within the rules, it's not bad sportsmanship to say
you need to play that again, I'm sorry. If they knew she was playing out of turn and let
her do it, well, that's another issue, but you'll never know that. I don't think there was
any intent there for bad sportsmanship. I think when the shot went in, they recognized
that she wasn't even out. And I'm sure Payne Stewart would like to call Lee Janzen to
rehit his chip shot when Paine was out and he let him go at the U.S. Open. Payne talked
about that quite a bit.  
 TOM LEHMAN: I think if that is poor sportsmanship, they ought to take the rule out of
the book. How can playing within the rules be construed as poor sportsmanship? Poor
sportsmanship has been bending the rules, going outside the rules, pushing the envelope.
If you're playing within the rules and you're criticized for it now, they ought to get rid
of the rule.  
 
Q. Tom, even though there are two separate events, you feel there might be less
pressure on you guys coming into this event having won the Ryder Cup last year than
supposedly if you had not and maybe that might allow you guys to play freer from the
beginning? 
 
 TOM LEHMAN: I think there's a great deal of confidence created by the Ryder Cup. I
sense a real sense of unit, kind of has carried over from that team to this one. And I
think we proved a lot to ourselves in Brookline, and I think more than anything I think
that's motivated a lot of the guys who were there, and probably the guys who weren't there
to come out here and do it again this week. We don't want to get so far behind, but we
definitely want to win. I think we're not here just to put on a show and have
entertainment and spend a week in Washington, D.C. we're here to win.  
 
Q. Phil, a question for you and Tom. As far as Brookline went and the galleries, how
aware were you of what was going on? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: As far as what? As far as the rowdiness? I certainly knew they were
excited that we were winning, that was pretty evident. I did not know or had not become
aware of any problems that the gallery was creating for the other side mainly because
Saturday night I was listening to Mark James' interview and he was telling everybody how
great everybody was. So I thought everything was fine. I didn't realize that they were
having problems. And I guess that it must have all just happened on Sunday, because
Saturday night listening to his interview he had nothing but wonderful things to say about
the U.S. side and the gallery there. 
 
Q. Notah, I wondered as a rookie if you and Kirk had talked about being rookies or if
you were maybe brought together because of your rookie status, anything of that nature? 
 
 NOTAH BEGAY III: No, we haven't gotten in any real in depth conversations about that. I
think Kirk and I are just trying to pick up as many little words of advice, encouragement
from the more experienced players and just trying to contribute in whatever way we can.
It's real simple. We're just trying to keep it simple, here.  
 
Q. Some of the Internationals this morning talked about the great chemistry they had.
Chemistry seems to be sort of a elusive concept. How do you best go about getting
chemistry or is that overrated, team chemistry? 
 
 TOM LEHMAN: No, team chemistry is everything, almost. You're looking for a situation
where two plus two equals five. That's what good teams have done. They've kind of become
better than they really are, because of the way they pull together. I think for whatever
reason or what causes chemistry, that's kind of elusive. And sometimes it takes some
disappointment, sometimes it takes whatever it might be, and you kind of pull together.
Everybody is looking for that way to pull together and form a team. And that's when you're
tough to beat.  
 
Q. Just a follow-up to Phil. There are a lot of things floating around already, and I
hate to jump ahead, but to 2002, so maybe we could set the record straight. Where do you
stand on going to South Africa or have you not made a decision if, in fact, you are
eligible by points?
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: Yeah, that's really an interesting question, and I haven't had time to
really think about it as much as I would like. I think that I've been putting that
decision off until this week. I want to win this event very badly. And I think that since
I've been out on Tour and have played in the past six or seven International Team
competitions we have not held the same cup or the two different cups at the same time. And
so that's very important to me because there's a lot of pride on the line and there's a
lot of emotion and I guess, well, pride would probably be the biggest word. We have high
expectations put on ourselves through us, by the public, and by other people. And we want
and expect to be able to win, and we haven't been able to do it two years in a row. And
because of that this event was very important. As far as two years from now we'll think
about that probably not for another year or so, because we've got the Ryder Cup at the
Belfry next year, and that would probably be an issue, too. 
 
Q. Would you be in favor of a Round Robin, where the winner of the Presidents Cup play
the winner of the Ryder Cup? 
 
 PHIL MICKELSON: You're messing with history if you do that. To alter a 70- or 80-year
event such as the Ryder Cup is really not, in my opinion, going to be best for the game.
Now certainly there are some advantages to it, maybe, but I think that in the long run we
would only be hurting ourselves. And I think it's also important not to try to compare the
two as of yet. Because The Presidents Cup needs time to evolve and become the event that
it's capable of, because it hasn't reached its full potential yet. And I think in maybe
20, 30, 40 years time when it's started to evolve and being something very special and
unique, we may be able to implement it, but at that time it would seem more logical not
to, also.  
 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports .... 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT