BUICK OPEN
August 8, 2000
Tom Pernice, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Obviously it was very special. Since that time I think I have just
tried to continue to keep working hard like I had been and keep trying to improve and try
to get another one. I played okay at the beginning of the year; haven't played very well
(inaudible) nice to come back and play where you have got some great memories. 
 
Q. When you were here a month ago you were talking about working on some things on your
game. What has that process been like in the last little while?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: It has been good. I have seen some progress that I was looking for
working on my backswing a little bit; it is coming around; looking good on the video. Now
it is a matter of being able to be comfortable with it; being able to hit some good shots.
I missed the cut at The INTERNATIONAL by a shot and Quad Cities by a shot last two weeks,
but it has been okay. It is starting to come around; still hitting a few wavered shots,
but I feel like it is getting closer as I continue to work hard. We will see how it goes
this week. 
 
Q. What will your strategy be for this week starting Thursday defending?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Not any different it is from any other week. You have got to shoot
the lowest score. I don't think there -- I am not trying to approach it any differently
than I do any other week - preparing as well as I could here Tuesday; go out with a
positive feel to my golf swing and be ready to go. I don't think there is any different
strategy than there is any other time. 
 
Q. Obviously different from last year, Tiger is here this year. Is that in the back of
your mind?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Doesn't make anymore difference at all; just going to add more
excitement to the event. It is not going to change how I play, that is for sure. Tiger has
got to the go out and play his own game. He doesn't worry about anybody else. I do not
think any of the players worry about what Tiger is doing in terms of what we have to do.
He just brings a lot of people to the gate; brings a lot of attention to the media, a lot
of attention to the PGA TOUR. I think it is great that he is here. I know the people here
at Buick are excited about him being here and the community itself. Personally no, I
don't. I think it is great when he does come out and play though. 
 
Q. Coming back to this course, what does that do for your confidence? Does it give you
an extra boost there?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I think it helps, sure. I mean, I played good here a couple of years
ago; played good obviously last year, so, you have some great memories in terms of what
has happened here and feel very comfortable around this golf course. I think it is one of
our better golf courses in terms of no tricks. If you play well, you have the opportunity
to shoot good scores. But I have good feelings about it. It does help to have the
confidence that you know how to play the course and you feel comfortable. Some people feel
comfortable on other courses and don't feel comfortable on others, but this one, to me, is
very comfortable.  
 
Q. It is good for the tournament; good for the Tour that somebody like Tiger Woods is
here, but does it ever get annoying to always have to answer the questions about Tiger
being the defending champion and you answering questions -- does that part of get
irritating?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Not at all. Deservedly so. Look at what he has done. Nobody has done
what he has done over the last year in any time in golf basically. Nicklaus, Snead, Hogan,
I mean, what he has done and accomplished, what I determine in better competition than
what they played in, I think, is remarkable. The attention that he gets and stuff, I think
he truly deserves. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about how that back nine on Sunday last year kind of
unfolded and what you were thinking because you started the day with five or six shots
behind?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I wasn't thinking about anything. I was just out there playing and
all of a sudden putts started going in, you know, I made a nice putt on the par 5, 13th
for eagle, and then hit a good drive on 13 right there in front, chipped it up two or
three feet, made it. Made a good par on the next hole which was playing difficult that
day, back into the wind. Then made the one at 16 and made another tough putt at 17. So out
of nowhere putts started flying in, and lo and behold, all of a sudden I was in the lead
didn't know much about it. It just worked out. 
 
Q. This golf course used to be one of the longest or used to be considered long on the
PGA TOUR 20 years ago, 18 years ago. It is not long anymore. Can you talk about how long
you think it is and how long it plays?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: This course can play either very long if you have a little bit of
rain, it becomes -- the par 5s -- just a handful of people can reach one and 16 and some
of the longer par 5s and the par 4s will play long if you don't get much rain and the
fairways dry out, ball can run out there. More people can reach them because they have the
approaches to run them up and stuff. I think it just depends on the weather, it can play
very long, but in this day and age, I don't think a long course really matters much in
terms of the scoring on the PGA TOUR if it is soft. Long irons into the greens, they are
receptive; scores are still going to be low even in its long and soft. If it would be
playing long and the greens would be firm and fast, I think it would be a different story.
What usually happens is when the courses are playing long these days, it is firm and it is
dry and the ball's running out there quite a bit. When it is playing long and soft, I
don't think that it matters, I really don't, because the greens hold the shots and players
are going to shoot good scores if the greens hold and the wind doesn't blow. If it dries
out and the winds start blowing around here, don't get any rain, I think it plays more
difficult even though it is shorter. 
 
Q. Following up the Tiger thing, did it change your outlook on par knowing he is out
there or Bobby Jones used to say you are always playing against "old man par."
But it seems like with Tiger now he is just kind of -- you know that par just isn't good
enough. Does that change your outlook?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: No, not really. Because when you start here, the weather is going to
be good. It's going to take 15- to 18-under. I mean, you know from the start, whether
Tiger is playing or Ernie Els is playing or Davis Love is playing, or it really doesn't
matter. With the caliber out here, it doesn't matter who is playing. You know if the
weather is good because the course is going to be in great condition that scoring is going
to be pretty good right off the bat. You know if you shoot par everyday, you are not going
anywhere. So I don't think Tiger has an effect on how people play until possibly the last
nine holes or something Tiger has some effect on people coming down the stretch when they
have been in the hunt and stuff. What he did at Pebble Beach coming in comes to mind,
first and foremost. And him and Ernie battling it out at Kapalua earlier in the year. But
I don't think the players, as a rule, really look at Tiger and how they are going to play
and what the scoring is going to be like. I think it definitely, coming down the stretch,
is when Tiger is there, I think it's had some effect on some players coming down the
stretch. 
 
Q. What was the best perk of winning last year?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Oh, I just think the satisfaction of being out here forever and
practicing and working hard to know that you finally did what you were trying to
accomplish and that the opportunity is there and to continue to work hard and hopefully
there are some more down the road, I think, more than anything. That is more important to
me than the two-year exemption and the money, all that. But I think just the satisfaction
and the gratitude of working so hard and finally getting over that first step. 
 
Q. Is it nice to finally have the luxury of being exempt for two years not having to
worry about that has changed your approach at all?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I really haven't thought about it that much really. My two daughters
said: Why are you playing so much all the time; you are exempt for two years? But I think
I tried to have it motivate me a little bit more. I have tried to work harder, tried to,
you know, just try to continue with my progress based on that and try to keep going. 
 
Q. Any significant changes as far as your career goes; whether it is recognition or
endorsements, have you seen a difference after your victory last year?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Not really. Obviously you are little bit well known. The people that
watch golf and follow it and saw that you had won and they recognize you a little bit. But
other than that, not really, no. 
 
Q. What in your mind would be the second step (inaudible) --
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: Just to continue on and getting yourself in competition and the
opportunity to win. I think everybody is out here to win golf tournaments. Whether it be
the Buick Open or whether it be the PGA next week, I think you try to prepare yourself
each week to go out there to win golf tournaments. In the back of your mind to know that
you can do it is very satisfying and I think that will help when the time comes, you get
down the stretch where it is there again, I think you can draw upon that and know that it
can happen. I think that is what Tiger does so well. I mean, he is in competition so
often, it is so easily to draw upon his success and confidence. He builds more and more
based upon that and that is what makes him so tough, I think, to able to draw on his past
experiences. And his -- he does it so well. I mean, he knows if he has a clutch putt at a
certain time, he can recall that he has done it before and he knows that he can do it. He
believes that he can do it he continues to do it. 
 
Q. So much has been said about Tiger raising the bar for the rest of the Tour. Do you
see players coming up -- it hasn't shown up yet in the majors as far as the difference in
first and second place, but do you see it slowly happening? Will it happen, do you think,
that players will come up closer to his level?
 
 TOM PERNICE, JR.: I think so and I think Tiger is playing at an exceptional level right
now. You look at what happened, I mean, at the Western Open, I felt like he played pretty
good, putted poorly, and finish 20th or so. I think no matter who you are, out here you
have to putt well to be able to compete to win. I don't think you can hit the ball good
enough and putt poorly and win out here the competition is too high. So, I don't think
Tiger is going to win the PGA by 10 or 12 unless he putts extremely well again. I think
Tiger would admit that both in the British Open and in the U.S. Open he putted the ball
very nicely and I think Pebble he had less than 100 putts which is phenomenal on those
greens that are so slopey and tricky. So I think when he won at The Masters he won by a
large margin and is putting was phenomenal. His ball-striking obviously puts him there
week after week. When he putts well that is when he distances himself from the field.
Tiger would admit. Tough to win a golf tournament if he had a bad week of putting. His
golf striking and mechanics is on tops of everybody, no question. You still have to putt
well to be able to compete. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT