EUROCARD OPEN
October 30, 1998
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Give us the good news, are you at more peace now still? 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think so. I put some more glue in my joints and it is still
okay. 
 
Q. Probably the only one still standing by Sunday the way things are going?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, at the moment it looks like it almost - it is very strange, I
mean, it does happen in tournaments sometimes. It has happened this tournament before with
the flu. I think it was in 1993, when I lost in the final to Stich, I think like three or
four guys pulled out including Becker against me in the semis with the flu, so, somehow
suddenly a couple of guys got injured in a row, got sick, and yeah, it is a shame for the
crowd and yeah, suddenly looks like it is going to be a long day and then the day is
finished already at 4:30 at least the singles day. 
 
Q. You pulled a little weight off your shoulders since in six and a half years you have
lost to Goran nine times?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I didn't know it was that long. I knew it was that many matches.
Yeah, I didn't know it was such a burden for me. I know it happens so many times and now
it is the feeling. The last couple of times it was very close. A lot of times he came out
with good shots and not that I was very happy with the loss, but it helped me accept it a
little bit more. But today, I really felt when I was ahead; that I was starting to get
really nervous. I could think about it, about not letting it happen again basically and
yeah, normally I don't get so nervous. That was really a sign that it has been in my head
and that is in my head that he had my number. I hope I probably got rid of that and I hope
maybe next time that I will think less about it when I play him and that it will be -- I
will just finish it off already without a tiebreak in the second set. 
 
Q. With the exception of that one little spell when you did get a little bit nervous,
were you pleased with the way you played overall?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I think I did play pretty good. I didn't make not too many
unforced errors and I came up with some good volleys, also some good pickups. He was
passing pretty good actually and sometimes a little bit of luck, but I somehow got them
over the net. That frustrated him a little bit and made him go for more. I think that is
why sometimes he missed a couple of passes. I was covering the net well and I think that
was very important part of the match, maybe that made him miss a couple of passes, maybe.
Maybe like the one at 4-3 in the tiebreaker it was relatively easy, he saw me maybe
covering the crosscourt; he prefers to go crosscourt and he missed it in the net
down-the-line. I think those were positive things and those gave me a couple of free
points at the end of the match.  
 
Q. Are you thinking about Hannover a little more seriously now after this victory? Tim
has lost. You have won. What is your thinking?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I can think about it a little bit more, but I would like to have the
one more victory, I mean, one more win, then I can think very seriously about it. Now, I
mean, if I would lose tomorrow, then I still have to make the Finals next week, so still
-- if I can manage to win the next match, then yeah, then I think I will make the other
guys sweat a little bit. 
 
Q. There is big discussion concerning rules and regulations when you play a guy like
Goran especially indoors. Is there any rule you would like to change in tennis right now?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, I think I mean, we are extreme cases, Goran and myself, and we
just serve very big. I think what they have done with the court this week is very good for
tennis. I think almost any court we play on, including clay, you are going to have some
short point. I think if you look at the most matches, the matches have been very good and
I think the balls they used here have also been perfect. I mean, they are pretty fast, and
not too heavy and because I think if you slowed the court down and the balls, then you are
going -- for starters going to be very slow, but the worst part is that heavy balls really
cause injuries. By just slowing the court down as much as possible, I don't think you can
make it much slower-I think they made it fair enough already. I played Andre yesterday. He
didn't play his best tennis but I still had to attack him very well to win. If I wouldn't
have done that, then he would have beaten me and maybe on a normal indoor court, I don't
have to play my best tennis and probably would have beaten him also. -. So I think this is
a fair court and I don't think you can judge the court and the balls according to the
match against Goran because that is just -- that is just normal, you are going to have a
lot of easy service games. But I think they have done a good job and I hope that the other
tournaments will pick it up with this court, that we are going to have all the indoor
events on this court. It is a lot tougher for me. I suddenly have to work in my matches. I
am not used to it, to work indoors, but I think for the crowd, in the end, it is the best
thing. And we always talk about pleasing the crowd and trying to make it more interesting.
One of the things is of course grass tennis which is difficult because you cannot change
the surface there, but indoor tennis you can. I think Stuttgart has made the first good
step towards that discussion and that problem. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT