EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1998
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you comment on the performance how you feel you played?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think I played too good if I could say so myself. I was serving
good from the beginning and normally he is a pretty quick starter and he won the toss, he
gave me the serve. You never know, he can come out with a few good returns, but I kept --
I started serving well and I kept serving well. So he never got a rhythm on his serve. In
the beginning, he was serving very slow, caught me off guard a little bit. I missed a
couple of returns. Maybe I shouldn't have missed; then I got on it. I put a lot of
pressure on the service games, but I chip charged and served a lot; make him hit passing
shots which, of course, he hits a lot. He can miss a couple because he has to keep making
them. I think at 4-All in the second the breakpoint maybe wasn't that difficult a passing
shot, but if you have to make them all the time, then eventually you can miss a couple.

Q. What is the situation with the knee, everyone assumed you were going to have an
operation after the US Open; you didn't have it. What did you do?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I just wanted to give myself one more shot because I am a very good
indoor court player. By having an operation after US Open, I wouldn't make the indoor
season at all; then I would be fit for the holidays. I mean, so that wasn't really a goal.
I was trying to at least play these three tournaments indoors. I did a lot of work, a lot
of weights and a lot of cycling to get a lot of tension in the muscles to really make them
as strong as possible. And play this event. After Paris if I don't qualify, then I am
going to have an operation for sure.

Q. Does it hurt?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I feel it a little bit. It is okay. As long as it doesn't -- if I
make like a really wrong move, then the meniscus has a tear in it, then it can completely
like rip off in a way and then it is very painful. Then I have to stop. But I just wanted
to try one more time. If something happens like in US Open, then I will stop basically on
the spot; then I will have an operation straight-a-way. But because, like I said, if I
would have an operation right after the US Open then I would be ready to play maybe in two
or three weeks, then the season is finished. So I just wanted to try these couple of
events, had a long break and work out a lot physically.

Q. How do you fancy your chances of qualifying now?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Not so good at the moment. I was hoping to get a little bit of a
better result in Vienna. Normally I do play pretty good after a long break, but I have to
say I lost to Cedric Pioline. He was playing a good match. So I lost second round there.
Now the difference between me and Tim -- I mean, it is only two spots, but it is like 400
points or even more.

Q. He just lost.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, I know but still, it is a lot and I think at the moment I am
just trying to play a good tournament and if he would lose, I think tomorrow even then my
chances of qualifying are basically minimum. But if I would do well here, maybe make semis
or finals, or maybe win it, then it depends on how I do next week. At the moment I am not
looking at the qualifying. Just trying to play as good as possible. If I am still here
Saturday and Sunday then I can start thinking a little bit about trying to qualify for
Hannover next week.

Q. Is the knee that bothers you now the one you had surgery on before?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: No. That knee since I had the surgery has been good. That is why I am
going to have surgery on the other one because I hope it will come out as good as the
right one. The left one is the troubled knee. So, yeah, just tearing the lining, however
you want to call it, you have to cut that away and try to postpone it as much as possible
because I notice how easy -- also people, not only press, Dutch press, but also people
that I know, how easy people talk about an operation even though it is only arthroscopic.
They still go inside your body; it still takes six to eight weeks to recover from that.
That is why I tried to postpone it as much as possible. I don't take it lightly at all.
There are no guarantees that the knee will feel better. That is why I held it off as long
as possible.

End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT