US OPEN
September 4, 1998
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Could you just briefly talk about the match today. Scorewise, it looked like it was
pretty comfortable.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: First set was very comfortable. Second set he changed his game plan a
little bit. He stayed back and I think he was hitting very good forehands. Normally it is
his weaker side, but he hit a lot of winners with his forehand second set. End of second
set, I had a lot of chances 5-4, 15-30, relative easy volley to go double set point at
6-5, had a couple of set points and I got a little tight on two of them, especially one of
them easy forehands. You go into a tiebreak, he was 3-2 up serving with a mini break.
Eventually I won that tiebreak. End of the second set was a little bit tight, after I won
that it was pretty easy. So it was difficult for maybe 4-5 games, last 4-5 games in the
second set. But before and after that, yeah, I think the scores said enough.

Q. Are you serving well or is there other stuff that is working well right now for the
first couple of matches?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I am serving pretty good. I had low percentage first serves
especially in the first set, but my second serve was very good today. I think that is the
most important. I mean, you cannot expect to hit your first serve good all the time. You
cannot expect to hit aces when you are down breakpoint or when it is 30-All, so, my second
serve was very good. I really feel confident about it. I can really rely on that shot. I
am volleying solid and making a lot of returns. All over, my only game, which is the
serve, is going well, the serve and volley, and then yeah, I put a lot of pressure on my
opponent by making him hit a lot of shots, I put a lot of returns on the court. He knows
to keep me back or else I am going to start coming in.

Q. You and Tim and are the only seeded players in the bottom of the draw with the real
serve and volley game. Do you think it is a good position for you to go far?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, the courts favor serve and volley players this year, I think.
But yeah, you still have to make the serves and especially make the volleys after that
because you cannot keep on hitting the aces like I said before. But I feel very confident
at the moment and I take it one match at a time, but I play two baseliners now and
especially today, I think Alex has a pretty good return and he didn't have that much of a
chance on my service game, so I think that is a good sign. If I can keep this level up,
serve and volleying, I have a good chance of winning a couple more rounds.

End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT