EUROCARD OPEN
October 26, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is it possible that one shot can make such a big difference to a match, that
backhand volley at the end of the first set seemed to change a lot? 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I mean the whole first set I was serving okay, but serving good
actually, but I wasn't timing the ball and then I am set point up and instead of making a
play, I missed a return and I missed another return then I missed that volley. So, that
was disappointing, but yeah, what was even worse was that I missed another volley on
breakpoint first game in the second. Those two shots, I think, of the three shots, the one
on set point that I missed the return, the backhand volley on set point down, and the
forehand volley, those three shots really changed the match a lot, I think. And, I wasn't
playing well, but, yeah, if you win the first set, then you maybe get into the match. But,
I was really struggling with my game today. I didn't play a left-hander all week. I think
that had a little bit to do with it. I wasn't reading his serve very well. I was having a
tough time returning his second serve. I mean, I have played Pete and Boris and they have
much bigger serves. But, yeah, somehow I had more trouble with a little bit slower lefty
serve than with the faster right-hander server. So, that was, yeah, that was a big
problem. Until 4-3 in the third, when I had the chance to go double breakpoint, I didn't
have a chance. I didn't have a breakpoint. I didn't even have a chance to get to
breakpoint. So, it was really -- I didn't put any pressure on him, his service games. That
was also a big difference. But that doesn't matter if you win the first set, then things
can change, momentum can change, the feeling can change. 
 
Q. To leave this tournament having beaten Sampras and Becker and got to the Final, that
must make you feel that winning a very big title is still within your sights, surely?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Oh, yeah. I know I can beat the big players still. I have a big game
and especially indoors or on grass or even on hard court, clay, it is a little bit more
difficult for me, but I think I still can beat anybody. And, after having such a good week
beating Sampras and Becker, you should finish it off, and, I mean, that is a little bit
disappointing part of this week that I didn't finish it off. I mean, I played Petr and he
is a good player. He is playing well this week; still, I think I should have won today.
Not that I had chances to win, but normally before the match, yeah, I really -- I expected
to win. 
 
Q. I am sorry if this was asked before I came in. What did the trainer come out for?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I had a little blood coming out of my nose. It wasn't really too bad,
I just wanted him to come. 
 
Q. Nothing serious?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: No, no. It is dry there. The room is so dry, so, I think just came a
little blood out so I just had him come over just in case it started to gush out and I
might die because of lack of blood, so just in case. (laughs). 
 
Q. Why do you think he is so difficult to play? A lot of people have the same sort of
problem over the years that you had today.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, I think, with me, the problem lies maybe also somehow I have
trouble with lefthanded players. I mean, I think of the four lefthanders I know Korda,
Ivanisevic, Rusedski and Siemerink I only have winning record against Siemerink. All the
other three, I am losing big-time - 2 and 5 against Korda, 2 and 8 against Goran, and,
yeah, I don't know what it is. It is just - I just have a tough time. But, Korda, yeah, I
have to - he has improved his serve a lot because normally you can attack his serve as I
always. Somehow he was serving really big serves and he was sliding it all over the place,
away from me, my body, and I really had a tough time adjusting. I was struggling with my
timing anyway and the way he was serving made it a lot more difficult to get into my game.
And, yeah, he just comes up with some big shots. I mean, he hit a few good passing shots
and then he whacks a winner from the baseline and you cannot read it. I mean, his favorite
shot is crosscourt. Then you are leaning crosscourt. Then suddenly he goes down the line.
You just -- he is very difficult to play because he can hit a winner from any position. He
is a very good front-runner and that is also a problem, of course, after I lost the first
set that is why he started just playing better. Once he was in front, once he was a set
up, he started making his forehand returns which is his weaker shot and he didn't make too
many in the first set. Once he got a head, he starts playing better and better so it was
very important for me to win that first set and, yeah, stay ahead of him even though I
wasn't playing well. And, as long as he is not happy, he is not so dangerous as when he is
winning. 
 
Q. Richard, with Hannover still very much a possibility for you, what do you think of
the fact that they are putting down a hard court for that, for the ATP Championship?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: I didn't know they were doing that. But I think it is a good idea. I
mean, the Spanish guys and Muster - I think those are the claycourters in the world, all
the Spanish guys and Thomas Muster, and they have complained and I think they were right
to complain that the whole year is grass, indoors, hard court and clay. So, you basically
have two slower surfaces and two quick surfaces, so, you should try to find something in
between. Yeah, I think with this court, it is much -- it is more fair to the guys who
qualified because of the clay court results. And, I think still the best player will win.
I mean, Sampras is the No. 1 player. He won it last year and he is also the best hard
court player and I think the Spanish -- I don't think that the claycourters will do that
much better because indoors is just a little bit different game, I think. But, I still
think if it is only mentally for them, they have a feeling that they have a chance now
because before I think when they came to Hannover they just had the feeling of the best 8.
It is nice to participate and it was almost like the Olympics feeling, you know, just more
important to participate than to win because they had the feeling they didn't have a
chance. So, now, in a way, it creates equal chances. But, I still think that a serve and
volleyer or a big server will win in Hannover. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT