US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Richard, obviously what occurred today helps you for today. Does it help you for the
long haul in the tournament in that you miss an opportunity to further acquaint yourself
with the court and all that stuff, lose the fitness, all that stuff? How do you feel about
that?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Well, it's a shame that I cannot play on the stadium also of course.
And I think if it's going to hurt me, it would only hurt me the next match, that I have a
little bit longer break. I think once I get through the next match, I don't think I notice
it. I don't think it's a disadvantage to play much less physical-wise.

Q. But there was something good about the fact that you didn't have to risk losing to
the sixth seed.

RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, in a way you can look at it like that. It's also good to get a
test. I mean, this would have been my first high-ranked opponent. I haven't beaten too
many high-ranked players the last couple months. So, yeah, I also need a win like that to
boost my confidence like that a little bit. I am in the next round, so for sure for the
short-term it is good. But in a way, I would have liked to play also. But I don't want to
think too much about it. I'm just trying to get ready for my next match and just look at
the good side, which is that I'm in the next round and that I didn't have to strain myself
physically.

Q. How do you assess your chances to win this thing?

RICHARD KRAJICEK: I think today would have been a good day to play because then, like I
said, I played a high-ranked player. If I would have beaten him, it would have given me
confidence, would also have given me a chance to see how my game it. I'm hitting the ball
well. I feel pretty good on the court. Like I said, I haven't beaten too many high-ranked
players, so, you know, I think that's important. Once I get to feel that I can beat them
again, that I feel good, confident enough to play them, then I think I have a good chance.
But I've played lower-ranked guys which maybe have a little more respect for you, and it's
good to play against guys who don't have too much respect for you.

End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT