TMS - STUTTGART
October 30, 2000
Richard Krajicek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Richard.  
 
Q. How do you rate that performance out there today? Solid first effort.
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: 6-2, 1-Love, till then I was playing good tennis, serving solid,
making the returns I had to make. Of course, he's not an indoor player. Then, yeah, I kind
of lost my timing a little bit, especially on my baseline shots. Yeah, then I just held my
serve. My serve was big enough today to hold relatively easy. But, yeah, if I would have
played a little bit better in the second set, I probably would have broken him one or two
more times, and it would have been a more comfortable victory. Till a set and 1-Love, I
was pretty happy. 
 
Q. What is it about Stuttgart that makes you play well here? 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: It's an indoor event. I like playing indoors. Maybe because I've
already played a couple tournaments before, so I use it somehow as a warm-up. It's
inexplicable. I mean, I played basically always good in Stuttgart. I basically always play
bad in Paris. I don't know why that is. It's very weird. In a way, Paris is a very nice
city. There's more to do. I think maybe I can focus more on tennis here, I don't know.
Something is definitely good here for me that makes me play well. If I knew what it was, I
would make sure I would have it every tournament. Unfortunately, I don't know what it is. 
 
Q. Not being seeded, you have a very difficult draw, Hewitt next, Henman, Safin in your
section of the draw. 
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: Yeah, that makes it a little bit tougher. It's a good challenge. I
hope I finally start winning now, get back into the Top 20, Top 15, back to being seeded.
I have to say it is a little nicer feeling to know in the third round, quarterfinals
before I start meeting guys of this kind of caliber, like Hewitt and Henman. In other
Super 9's, the seeds have a bye, but in another Super 9's I have met them in the first
round. First round in Toronto I played Norman, and first round Cincinnati against
Kafelnikov. That's the tough part of not being seeded. I have to work hard. Hopefully,
here I can make a better start, and next year are back to the good old times, being
seeded. 
 
Q. Do you expect more questions on Sunday?
 
 RICHARD KRAJICEK: It would be nice. I'm looking forward to being here five more times
after this. It would be nice.  
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT