WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 7, 2000
Peter O'Malley
Lucas Parsons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 PETER O'MALLEY: We got off to a good start, and I made some birdies early on, and
that's obviously the way to go out there. The thing about this format is you play more
aggressive if your partner has already made a par, so you can get some of the putts out
there. You can get a little bit more aggressive because you know you don't have to worry
about the one coming back. Obviously, we got off to a fantastic start, and we just kept
going, doing it all the way around.  
 
 LUCAS PARSONS: Yeah, he played great at the start. You know, this kind of format is
something that you feed off your partner as well; and I think that's what we did well, as
well, today. Peter got off to a good start, and I filled him with a couple birdies around
6 or 7, I think -- maybe 7 and 8. And he eagled 9, so we got off to a great start. And he
kept it going, basically, and I just kicked in a birdie and an eagle around 14 and 17. And
you know, apart from the last, we were completely 100% happy. And I think even the last,
Peter holed a good 5-foot putt for bogey; so it felt like par in a way, as you would say.
But, yeah, I think we combined well. Today is a feed-off-your-partner kind of day, and
tomorrow is like a put-your-partner-in-the-right-spot kind of day. We're just going to go
out there and see if we can hold some greens and make a few putts.  
 
Q. How was the people's behavior today, and how do you feel about the people's behavior
around you today, and how are you preparing for tomorrow, since tomorrow you are playing
foursomes?
 
 PETER O'MALLEY: The crowd was very good, obviously. There's a little more crowd around
following Tiger and the Argentinian guys. Everyone was out there pretty good. We're just
going to go out there tomorrow and prepare. We practiced well in the foursomes format, and
we know what we want to do out there. It's just a matter of going out there and playing
like we did today and hopefully finishing off with a good score. 
 LUCAS PARSONS: I think the crowd is just fantastic. Argentina should be proud.  
 
 PETER O'MALLEY: At 9, I hit a driver and a 6-iron to 20 feet.  
 
 PETER O'MALLEY: 14, I hit a driver and a 3-wood to 10, 12 feet.  
 
 LUCAS PARSONS: 17, I hit a driver and a 7-iron to 3 feet.  
 
Q. The low scores that you hit today, was it something that can happen again, or was it
because of special conditions of the day? 
 
 PETER O'MALLEY: No, I think we can go out there and do the same thing. Obviously,
tomorrow is a different format. But I think the way that we combined today in the
four-ball we could just as easily do that again on Saturday. And tomorrow, I feel like the
way we're playing, I feel like we can go out and shoot a good score. I don't think -- 58
in foursomes would be a helluva score, but I think 58 in the four-ball is very reachable
again on Saturday.  
 
Q. How did you like, or how did you feel about the bunkers here at the club, and what
do you think about tomorrow? 
 
 LUCAS PARSONS: The bunkers -- did we hit in any bunkers today?  
 PETER O'MALLEY: I don't know -- the bunkers are -- I think you didn't hit any bunkers,
but I did. It's a different sand than what we normally play, and probably a lot more of
it. But the texture is not too bad. So as long as the ball doesn't plug, it's not too bad.
 
 LUCAS PARSONS: About tomorrow, we feel great. I've played probably more golf with Peter
O'Malley than any other pro in my career. I grew up with Pete, and I've probably played
more professional rounds with Pete than any other pro. So I think as a team, we're very
comfortable with each other. So we are quietly confident.  
 
Q. Australia has done a great job in Argentina in the year 1970. You won the trophy.
This nice start, a good start, does it mean that you feel more confident that you might
take the trophy back home this time?
 
 PETER O'MALLEY: Well, it is definitely a different format in the World Cup than back in
1970. Obviously, Lucas and I have not played in Argentina before, but we are quite happy
to be here. We're having a good time. I think, yeah, after the start, I think New Zealand
is in front of us at the moment, but we are still in a very good position. We are
confident that maybe Australia can take the trophy back home.  
 LUCAS PARSONS: Who were the Australians actually who won in Argentina? Graham Marsh?
Billy Dunk, maybe? It would be great to duplicate that. Palmy and I would love to take the
trophy back, but there is a long way to go. (David Graham and Bruce Devlin won in 1970.) 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT