U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Kelli Kuehne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: Starting out last year, I had a bit of a tough time getting going. I put
a lot of pressure on myself to play well, and I didn't play well. And it took me seven
events to make my first cut. And then I started to play well, but then I'd go through a
couple weeks where I didn't play well. But this year I've come out and played a lot more
solidly. Played great a couple weeks ago in Austin and finished seventh, and it was kind
of in my second hometown. And last week I went to Corning, New York with a lot of
momentum. I played great. Every aspect of my game was really solid. I hit it well. My
short game was great. I putted it really well. I'm definitely excited to have my first win
under my belt, and I didn't expect it to happen this soon. I'm really excited. 
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: I was diagnosed with diabetes when I was ten years old, and I'm 22 now.
So I've been diabetic for 12 1/2 years. Some people say it's a burden or whatever. I've
never been the type to look at this that way. It's taught me about discipline. It's taught
me about commitment. I used to take two to three insulin shots a day. In October I
switched to a new form of medication called the Mini-Med Insulin Pump. It's this
beeper-looking thing that's on my belt. I wear it 24 hours a day. I can take it off to
take a shower or something like that if I want to, but the great thing about it is that
this gives me insulin in a 24-hour period, and I can turn the amount down or up as I need
it. And I just hit a couple buttons, and I don't have to take shots again. I think that's
helped my golf out a lot, because I can turn my insulin rates down when I'm playing, when
you need less insulin. So that's a luxury that I have now that I used to not have. 
 
Q. Scott Verplank is also a diabetic, and he's talked about the fact that whatever
adversity that he went through in golf, it was really nothing compared to being a diabetic
and having that adversity, being able to handle the other side of it. Do you feel the same
way; that whatever you were going through, you've toughed out other situations because of
your diabetes?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: I definitely think that being diabetic is very difficult at times. But I
don't really look at it as a bad situation, because your blood sugar is either -- my
problem is my pancreas doesn't work properly. I don't get enough insulin. My blood sugar
is either going to be too low or too high. Very rarely will it be perfect like most people
will have. My goal is to have blood sugar between 80 and 120. My blood sugar was 376 when
I was diagnosed. You learn a lot about routine and schedule, and a lot of discipline along
the way. The little bumps that happen with my golf and all that, being diabetic can help
you keep all that in life, because there's a lot more important things in life than
chasing a golf ball around. Golf is important. It's a huge part of my life. But there are
a lot more other facets of my life that are a lot more important as well, like being a
real person, too. I think that being a diabetic has helped a lot. It has taught me a lot
about discipline and true grit and how to overcome certain situations. 
 
Q. Obviously you have the momentum now. You're good at putting things back-to-back.
What are your thoughts about playing here and that you have about the course suiting your
game?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: The golf course is absolutely incredible. I played the front nine
yesterday and had the luxury of playing the full 18 today, and that back nine just keeps
coming and coming at you. The greens are quick. They have gotten quicker between yesterday
and today. I would assume that they are going to get even faster. They are big; so, target
golf is very important. There's a lot of water. Hopefully I won't find that at all this
week, but the golf course is in very incredible shape. As far as my golf game, I feel like
I'm hitting the ball well. I feel like my short game is excellent. I think speed and the
speed of your putts are going to be very important because the greens are so big. And this
is the U.S. Open; so hitting the fairway and to hit putts are very beneficial, especially
at the Open.  
 
Q. Sunday night after the tournament, I think they had the charter; were you on that?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: Yeah. 
 
Q. 90 players or so?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: I think there were 84 of us. 
 
Q. Can you talk about what it was like being on that and how it felt to be there and be
the winner and talk about what that was like being with everybody?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: You know, it was really kind of no different. I got a lot of high-fives;
congratulations; way to go. I mean a lot of hugs from several of my friends and stuff like
that. But I don't feel any different. I mean, I don't feel like I'm -- I definitely don't
feel like I'm high and mighty. I feel like I'm still the same way, the same person that I
have always been. It's nice to know that I still have the same instinct that I had during
my amateur days because that's been missing for a while. I've struggled as a pro. I
haven't played all that well. And the most frustrating thing for me is that I have not
played up to my potential. I have just kind of come into my own this year. 1999 was --
kind of marks me really playing well and solidly. So it was fun, though, having the
camaraderie and all the girls give me a hard time. I don't get the rookie blast anymore
because I'm in my second year, but it was pretty neat for a couple girls to say: You've
got yours; now I'm waiting to get mine. That was great to hear. 
 
Q. Do you think that you will become a role model because of what you've overcome? Does
that add any pressure?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: No, I don't think it adds pressure at all. I think it almost adds an
element of inspiration, especially among the young people. Henry overcoming his alcoholism
is far more difficult than me keep coping with diabetes. I've been diabetic since I've
been 10. That's the only way of life I really know. Henry has been sober for over three
and a half years -- just over four, actually, but he's got to live with it. I hope he
never has the urge to drink again, but he's got to live with the reality that there's
going to be alcoholic beverages everywhere he goes for the rest of his life, and all it
takes is one sip and he could be back on the wrong track again. It's kind of scary to
think like that, but I really do think that all the young kids, and even people that are
older than Henry and myself, I think that it keeps you grounded because as people say how
did you do it or what's really worked for you? I think it's important because it kind of
helps you re-tell your story, and in the process it helps him heal, and it helps me
continue to want to keep myself in great championship. 
 
Q. Because of all the attention that has been on your family the last few years in
terms of the golf and other things, what do you thrive on that kind of pressure to live up
to the name, or is it something that is just you've been playing for so long, it's second
nature?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: I think it's probably a little bit of both. If it wasn't in Trip or me,
it was Henry. Or if it wasn't Trip or Henry, it was me. So what's great is there's always
been one of us Kuehnes playing good at one time. That's what keeps our spirits up. If I
wasn't playing well, or Henry wasn't playing well, Trip was there to cheer everybody up. I
think it's great in that aspect, because we've always had each other to fall back on and
rely on. That's how my family works. At the same time, I think it's been kind of difficult
because if one of us hasn't won, it's one what's wrong with the Kuehnes. It can kind of
work both ways, but I think it's definitely been a huge advantage to have two brothers as
successful and as great of people and players as they are to -- to kind of help or
anything like that. I think it's pretty unusual to have three of us all in the same
environment many, the same atmosphere. I think it's pretty fun. 
 
Q. What's the age difference?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: Trip is -- he turns 27 on the 20th of this month. Henry is 23. He turns
24 in September, and I just turned 22. 
 
Q. What does Trip do?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: Trip is a stock analyst for a firm called Widerock Capital in Dallas. 
 
Q. I've always been taught that a USGA event is a USGA event. There's a certain
atmosphere. A certain feeling. A certain pressure. It's difficult. Will you be able to
draw on your Amateur victories in this U.S. Open?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: I think so. I'm very comfortable playing in the USGA events. They have
been very good to me. There is a certain -- like a certain stigma about an USGA event. The
premiere event level at any level is the USGA, whether it's the U.S. Title, the U.S.
Junior, the U.S. Amateur. All of those are USGA events. And I'm not saying that LPGA
events aren't great events because they are. But USGA is like the pinnacle and crown of
all crowns. So I definitely think that having been a successful amateur player with my
USGA wins, that had a helps me out, because I love the courses that USGA picks. They
usually fitted my game well, because you have to hit it straight. You have to hit lots of
fairways and lots of greens, and you always need to putt well in USGA events and I
definitely think that's to my advantage. 
 
Q. Kelli is there a feeling along amongst young players coming up that you guys want to
prove that you belong out here; that you can play with the players that not only have been
playing for years and years, but the Sorrenstams and people like that?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: I think that it's hard being young. It's hard being one of the youngest
ones out here. It's hard trying to establish yourself. I have struggled with it. A lot of
players have struggled with it. I'm not the only one. I think it's important to a lot of
young players to come out here and say: Yes, I can play because we want the respect of our
peers, and the players that are more established, but respect is something that's earned
not given. When I came out here it was great that I had a great amateur record, but it
didn't do anything for me in the professional ranks, really, and I needed to earn the
respect of my peers; and I did earn the respect when I went through TOUR school. I
wouldn't say that I necessarily lost the respect last year, because everybody that saw me
said: You're young; give it time; you'll be fine; just let it all work itself out. But I
think it's something that I didn't keep my status last year; so, it's something that I had
to kind of reestablish and earn this year by playing well, and that's the only way you can
earn the respect of your peers because it's a business. It's no longer just golf. This is
your way of life now. 
 
Q. You're out there whistling while you're putting; chatting while you're walking down
the fairways. Are you immune to pressure?
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: Last year, I don't mean to dwell on last year, but last year was a big
year of growing pains. It was not a fun year for me. I had a lot to learn. And this year,
I just made a big issue out of coming out and having a whole lot more fun, because I kind
of lost my zip and I lost my flare last year. And I made a big issue out of coming out and
trying to have some fun, because in golf, it seems like the harder you try the worse it
gets. And it's one of the most frustrating things about the game, but it's a realization
that you have to come to terms that you can live with. It's Tuesday. I'll be whistling
some on Thursday, especially, hopefully, after I do something really good. But, you know,
like last week I show up and my caddie and I were singing from the minute we hit the gates
to the minute we left the gates. I mean, we were just being silly, and you've got to have
fun. That's kind of like my theme of the year is: Enjoy the game that I've grown to love.
And I mean golf has done so much for me, but the greatest thing I can do for it is enjoy
it and play it at the same time, because it's no fun to come out here and be miserable. 
 
 KELLI KUEHNE: My mom is here. My dad is coming in either late tonight or tomorrow. My
brother is probably not going to be able to make it. So we'll have mom and Dads. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT