BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
March 30, 2000
Nick Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 NICK PRICE: I played really solidly today. The delay was a little unsettling this
morning, obviously. I warmed up twice. But we hadn't actually started. We were the next
group to tee off on No. 1 when they blew the horn. So I guess we got a little lucky there.
Our round wasn't really disrupted; still had to go out and warm up again. When we got back
out it was really cold; then it just steadily got warmer and warmer. I think we got pretty
fortunate there because I am sure the guys who started early and had that cold weather,
first four, five holes for them or three or four holes couldn't have been much fun. But I
played really well. I struck the ball very well. I think I hit 17 greens today. I missed
one green which was the first hole. I missed it by about two feet right on line just the
wrong club. And I had numerous birdie opportunities but I holed a couple of good ones, one
particularly on No. 5 where I pulled my second shot with a wedge to about 35 feet, I had
an uphill-downhill left-to-right break that I made. Then I made three birdies there after,
but not very long putts, probably I guess about eight feet on No. 6. 10 to twelve feet on
No. 10. And then on 17 I hit a 6-iron to about six feet. But all and all, a good day.
Really happy because I am kind of counting on my good play from last week and also from
Doral. I feel like my game is in good shape. It is just -- trying to make sure that I
don't get myself too tired for next week and just pace myself nicely this week. It's been
a while since I have played -- played 3 in a row but I haven't played 4 in a row for a
while. But I am going play at Hilton Head as well. But I think I think a lot of us were
concerned when the bad weather was around because when you have bad weather it makes for a
much longer week. That is the last thing you need going into next week. We are here this
week and I am trying to concentrate on what I am doing this week. 
 
Q. Why would you be playing 4 in a row? 
 
 NICK PRICE: It is basically because my summer schedule, I have cut back on quite a lot.
I did last year because my kids have 12 weeks of school vacation from June, July and
August, and I am only playing five events in those 12 weeks. So kind of under my earlier
schedule and also the back end of the year just so that I can spend more time with them
during the summer. 
 
Q. Surprised the course is still as firm as it is?
 
 NICK PRICE: I tell you what, this course, it is in such unbelievable condition. I can't
-- I don't even know -- I mean, even splitting hairs you can't criticize anything. I am
not joking. There is, if anything, you might hear a couple of guys complain a little bit
about the greens being too firm the first bounce even with a short iron, but I think it is
good. It is absolutely perfect the way it is set up. Only thing that is lacking is about
two inches of rough and that is just because of the dormant -- what kind of grass do they
have off the fairway? Is it zoysia? Okay, right. It is kind of hard to recognize at the
moment. That is the only thing that is missing right now. I think, otherwise perfect
warmup for next week. A lot of shots very similar -- these greens are pretty quick right
now even with the rain we had this morning. 
 
Q. I know you concentrate on what is going on here this week, but do you find yourself
always keeping like one eye on what is coming up?
 
 NICK PRICE: When I am out there playing I am focused on what I am trying to do today
and my next shot at hand. But obviously when you when you get off the golf course, you
sort of look back and say, well, I hit some good shots there, but I better start
practicing this and get that right; not only for this week but also with next week in
mind. 
 
Q. What is it exactly do you think that has caused you get it in good gear this week
with Doral and last week and this week, anything in particular?
 
 NICK PRICE: To be honest with you, and I am not going to want to sound like an
advertisement here, but those irons that I have got have really helped my game an awful
lot. There is no doubt about it. Probably the best set of irons I have ever had. I have
picked up probably half a club and I am hitting them a lot straighter. But also the other
thing is my putting is a lot more solid now. I am putting -- I think last week, be
interesting to see what the putting stats are, but I think I did pretty well in the
putting stats last week. And this field, you know, it is funny, I sort of looked at the
beginning of this year and my life is in order and when you get that way, you know, not
building any houses, I am not doing anything, my kids are all healthy, everything is fine,
and things are particularly going along nicely. I am sort of right in the middle of all my
contracts, no new contracts coming up and I am very settled. And invariably, when you get
like that, that is when you play your best. Certainly feel like in the last two months
that the work that I did early on in the year is starting to pay dividends now,
particularly the last month, I should say. It is still fun for me to play golf and as long
as it is, I am going to be out here. 
 
Q. Would is the last time you had this peace of mind?
 
 NICK PRICE: Oh, I don't know. Last year was good. I mean, last year was our first year
in our new house. So I was pretty settled last year. I just putted really poorly for the
better part of four, five months there. Toward the end of the year I putted really well. I
started getting my putting in shape and my game had been pretty solid all year, but you
know, I don't know. It is hard to think. Probably back in 1991, maybe 1992, I had this
kind of peace of mind. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 NICK PRICE: What I feel like I am doing well is I am putting well from that 20 to 30
feet range which really takes a lot of not making a lot of them, but when I hit it out
that distance, I don't feel like I am going to 3-putt. When you do have that feel, the
feeling of putting well from that length, you don't have any pressure on your iron game.
So it is a little bit of a give and take there. My iron game is a little better because
there is not that much pressure and I think just generally out there I don't feel like I
am going to make any stupid mistakes. 
 
Q. (inaudible) (question about Tiger Woods)?
 
 NICK PRICE: There is certain courses where he just -- he is going to be so difficult to
beat. There is no two ways about it. But there are lot of courses out here that he is
going to struggle on which aren't suited. Well, not to say struggle - I do not ever see
him struggling on any golf course, but there are just certain ones he has more of
advantage on. Augusta is one of those golf courses, although I think the rough on that
first cut that they put in last year may have affected him a little bit. But to answer
your question, no, I don't think it would have -- we all know that this game is a game of
streaks and he is going through, you know, a really long streak -- as long a streak as
probably anybody has had in modern day golf. But I think his game will slow up a little
bit. I think it is very difficult for him to keep -- to stay at that pace for the whole
year and you will see his game peak and trough and peak and trough throughout the year.
But when he is ready to play and he is firing on all cylinders, you get him on the right
type of golf course that suits him, he is very, very difficult to beat. 
 
Q. Did you see how a little bit of that could have been you, a player over 40 could
step it up and be right there?
 
 NICK PRICE: Yeah, I mean, when you have a -- look, and I don't want to -- I don't want
you to take this in a negative context, but when you look at a lot of those victories that
Tiger had were through guys making mistakes. It was just a matter of time before it came
up against someone who wasn't going to make mistakes. Tiger, I am sure he will be the
first one to admit that to you. But that is often what happens when someone dominates, I
mean, I know a few of those victories that I won through that period 1992 through 1994,
there was a little bit of intimidation factor there and some guys made some mistakes. But
when you are playing well, that happens to you. Tiger is not going to have it all his own
way not as much as a lot of people seem to think. But he is going to get a whole heap of
it. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ€¦.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT