PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 1999
Magui Serna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. After the first set how did you get yourself back in the match more in the second
set? 
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Well, the first set was -- everything was going pretty fast and I couldn't
even think. Everything was going very fast. I didn't serve that well in the first set. I
did a lot of doublefaults and my first set wasn't going pretty well. Second, I started the
first game pretty well. Then it was like that I have more time to think and to -- the
points were longer; not just one shot or -- and I was getting in the game again. Because
in the first set I didn't even play. Everything was very fast and no points, no rallies,
nothing. 
 
Q. Is that because Venus hits the ball so much better than maybe some of the other
players you have been playing this week?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Yeah, I mean, when I get on the court balls were coming much faster than
other players. So it is a little bit different, a little more difficult to read her ball
because she is hitting the ball very hard, harder than all the other girls. 
 
Q. Because like the woman you played the last round, you had were having longer
rallies....
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Yeah, it was completely different. 
 
Q. You came in more.....
 
 MAGUI SERNA: When I started it was like a little bit like shock because everything was
going very fast and I couldn't even -- I don't know, couldn't play points or long rallies,
I couldn't. Everything was going very fast. Then the second I start serving a little bit
better so when I serve, I get to play more points, well, I got my chances then couldn't
make it. 
 
Q. The Spanish whom who played Venus last night she got really -- she was looking
really upset out there. You looked like you were trying to enjoy it; having a little bit
of fun...
 
 MAGUI SERNA: If you play someone that hits the ball so hard and you don't try to have
fun on the court, you are going to be like, I don't know, I don't know how to explain it.
You are going to feel very bad on the court and I just go -- I was going to go there, I
have to try to have fun and try to do as best I can. Today in the first set I couldn't,
but I just-- I always thinking that if I keep trying and if I keep be playing like
positive, I got my chances. I haven't, but I couldn't take it. 4-3 I got two breakpoints,
I mean, that was a big step between the first and second set, was a big difference. 
 
Q. How hard was it to work to get to the breakpoints against her?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: It wasn't that hard. Just keep playing positive because I lost 6-Love in
the first set; if you are not positive at that moment start in the second, maybe we are
going to be 6-1 in the second. You have to keep playing -- to try to change something. I
tried to get more into the net in the second and tried to change a few things, but always
trying to have fun on the court and just do it as best as I can. 
 
Q. Did you try to talk to anyone about playing Venus, what strategy to use?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: I always talk before my match with my coach. Yesterday we saw the match
with the Spanish girl. We saw that she is hitting the ball very hard and if you play like
-- if you are trying to play as fast as she plays, it is better for her. So you have to
play, I don't know, more topspin or slice or try to beat her out from her zone. She is
always playing -- if you play hard, she is going to play more hard. You have to change a
few things. 
 
Q. Will it surprise you if Venus wins the US Open? Do you think she is ready win a
Grand Slam?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Well, I think she is ready. She did final, I don't know, when was it, two
years ago. Now at US Open she always playing pretty well. She is playing home. She always
play very good. So I wouldn't be surprised if she wins. Not at all. 
 
Q. Would you like to play her again soon or would you rather wait awhile to play her
again?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: I prefer to wait a while. 
 
Q. Anything that makes her in some ways tougher than playing a Davenport or a Hingis?
They all have different kind of games...
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Well, as I said, she is pretty strong. Her serve is very strong too. She
had like, I don't know, she is very fast and she is very long. Very difficult to -- when
she comes into the net, it is like, I mean, huge. You see the court is like very small,
so, it is very difficult. 
 
Q. The beads don't bother you, hearing the beads moving around?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: No. Not really, just try to keep concentrate. 
 
Q. Aside from the Venus Williams matches, she hit the ball pretty hard. A lot of
players complain about the surface being too slow. Do you find that at all this week with
the stadium?
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Not really. I mean, I think it was pretty much similar from Toronto last
week. I don't know, I think it was pretty much the same. Not that fast and not that slow. 
 
Q. It was a good week for you, right, you went through the qualifying; you got to the
quarterfinals.
 
 MAGUI SERNA: Yeah, I mean, it is pretty good week. I mean, always when you start a
tournament you always think to get in the finals or win the tournament, but I am happy
with the way I am playing because this -- I mean, this first six months of the year have
been very hard for me. Now I am playing well again and I am having fun again on the court
so it is a big step for me. 
 
End of FastScriptsâ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT